Foreword

By Alice Bradley, Principal of Miss Farmer’s School of Cookery

OU may have a home which you want to turn into a tea room—or

you may be looking for a home that
, you can turn into a tea room. In
either case there is one aspect of your
plans which you cannot neglect, Watch
your location. For instance, a tea room
on the motor highway on the outskirts of
a town will not attract office
folk from the business sec-
tion, but it will catch the
motorist’s eye.

ECIPES and

used, and any other costs that are not
listed above, will be the average amount
you must take in daily before you will
make any profit over and above your own
salary. th

Decide tentatively on your wacin' Ces,
and learn how to apportion t Foods you
plan to serve; know the cos nd seblin g
prices of a definifé"amouttty
each thing, ahd athe number
of portions you nist sell in
a day in order to pay for the

Before you equip your menus whose | food material “and the over-
establishment, make a kitch- popularity has been head expenses listed above.

en plan and a dining-room proved by use in | 4 ¢ommen-method of deter-
plan on paper, then locate actual tea rooms mining t@& selling price of
the places for mixing cake, | Will be found on | ¢ockéd food is to double the
making frostings, salads, and pages 50-56. Some cost of the raw material.

dressings, slicing and spread- of these may be Can vou get this price? A
ing bread for sandwiches, | just. the bait to | this rate, can you probably
making waffles, tea, and cof- catch that particu- | cell enough to pay expenses?
fee, Locate drain boards for lar_ part of the | You may need to serve smail-
receiving, sorting, and drain- fickle public for er portions of some dishes.
ing dishes: locate shelves which you are an- On some dishes you should

near the sink for clean gling.
dishes, and shelves near the
work tables for all supplies.

Draw in the lines of travel from re-
frigerator to work table, to range, to din-
ing-room, to sink, ete. Shorten these
lines in every possible way, on paper, be-
fore building your shelves or setting up
refrigerator, sink, and stove, that all the
work of your tea room may be accom-
plished in the most efficient manner, with
a place for everything that will be needed,
and room for all the help vou have.

The probable overhead expense of run-
ning a tea room for a day should be care-
fully calculated before any money is in-
vested. To do this, add together rent for
a year for the rooms vou propose to
occupy; the interest on the proposed in-
vestment for repairs, furnishings andl
equipment; depreciation, that is, ten to
twenty per cent of the value of equip-
ment (both new and that already owned) ¢
probable cost of fuel, lights, water, ice;
lLeundry, telephone, and advertising.  Di-
vide this total by the number of days you
expect to be open in a year. Next, esti-
mate the wages you must pay to the help
you propose to have, including cooks,
waitresses, cashier, and a reasonable wage
for yourself. Get this cost for one day
and add to the other cost. This, plus the
average daily cost of all food material

Try them. charge more than double the

cost, because of the time
necessary for their prepara-
tion. Some may have to be sold at cost
or Jess than cost.

There is great danger of losing money,
because of wasted food or poor service,
where very many dishes are attempted at
one time unless you have a great deal of
help and a very large patronage.

As soon as. possible after you are
started, learn approximately how much
food will be used in a day, that there may
be no waste of perishable material. Keep
nonperishable supplies on hand in 2
locked store-room of which you hold the
key, so that you may not lose time send-
ing out unnecessarily.

Learn how many sandwiches you should
get from a loaf of bread and from a def-
inite amount of butter and of different
fillings. file the data, and strive to main-
tain this standard.

Know how many servings you should
get from one quart of ice cream, one
pound nut meats, and use the same meas-
ures every day.

Serve a definite number of salads from
one fowl, one can of pineapple, one quart
mayonnaise dressing, ete.

From a standard cake mixture, cut al-
ways the same number of pieces, and
make a definite number of little cakes.

Copyright 1922, Woman’s Home Companion

1

This cesta iter is brightened up with gaily colored French posters and pottery

Polly’s Place

2 started with a loaf of bread and a
pound of tea, away off in the northern-
most corner of the White Mountains, in a
little hundred-year-old house at Cole-
brook, New Hampshire, ten miles from
the Canadian border, with Mount Monad-
nock, in Vermont. just back of it, and
the Rangeley Lakes country in Maine but
twenty miles away. Sixty miles from the
heart of the White Mountains it stood, a
tidy motor run from many of the famous
resorts, but still on the state road and
depending upon a large hotel ten mil
distant at Dixville Notch for its initia)
patronage

After the little had had many
unhappy experiences with undesirable
tenants, its owner decided to subject it to
no more indignities, but give it the
dignified place deserved by the oldest
house for many miles around. According-
ly, six years ago, it opened wide its yel-
low-painted door with a brass knocker on
it, and made its bow as a tea room, the
first one in the great North Country, and
a decided novelty in its own home town.

eS

cottage

to

A pound of the best Orange Pekoe, a
loaf of bread, a jar of honey, and some
golden Jersey butter and cream were the
first investments. For at the beginning,
cinnamon or plain toast and tea were the
only things to be served, The tea house
was to work out its own destiny, create

demand, then supply it, and, above all,

cater to the wants of its patrons as they

And with a particular
from the great White
of people accustomed to
having what they want when they want
it, and paving well for it, it was not
difficult find the trend of their desires

became known.
patronage, culled
Mountain hotels,

to
to

They wanted a homelike atmosphere, serv-
ice of willing, pleasant maids, and some-
thing to eat, with the homey touch—a

radical change from hotel food, which, be
it never soon becomes tiresome if
one sits day day at the same table.

The first Polly’s Place, as it was
christened, in compliment to a nickname
owner, only paved its way. Open-
mid-August, it took many weeks
for it to become known, and only at the
end of the was it found that re-
sults had sufficiently encouraging to
warrant its going on another year, While
quantity was lacking, in far
variety went, it was immediately un-
that quality was what counted
and an effort was made to have the
things served as perfect as possible.
freshly made for each person, hot
steaming in a_ silver kettle, rieh
cream, freshly made hot toast, buttered
with golden butter or redolent with
strained honey and cinnamon, hot ginger-
bread, puffy brown doughnuts, and cot-

so good,
after
year,
of its
ing in

season

been

the
great
derstood

sO as

most,
few
Tea.
water

tage cheese, sageleaf sausage and seram-
bled eggs (the eggs laid by Polly’s own

hens)—these and a delicious cup of cof-

fee were about all she had to offer.

Thanks to many ramblings in Lurope,
where the lure of peasant pottery was
strong, Polly had many charming bits of
china and a special tea service in bright,
colorful ware for each of the folding tiffin
tables or mahogany tuckaway tables at
which her patrons were served. The gay
colored posters from the Latin Quarter
and French theatres which were hung on
the walls, together with plates from many
countries, and the shelves full of bright pot-
tery gave the tea room, with
its lew ceiling, a quaint, for-
eign air, which proved to be an

EA, in six dif-

too much money at the very beginning.

If vou have nothing to utilize in the
way of equipment, buy inexpensive but
attractive china and glass and plain fur-
niture, which may be artistically painted,
bringing down your initial investment to
a minimum. Japanese or willow ware
china may now be purchased most rea-
sonably, and ‘so may Colonial glassware,
which is graceful in shape, but strong
and well adapted to this usage. A differ-
ent service of gay china for
éach tea table is a pretty
idea, adding to the decorative

excellent advertising feature. ferent varie- effect and affording much
Later on, a peasant dining- ties, sewn into little pleasure to those being
room was added, with more individual muslin served.

French posters and pottery,
chintz curtains of blue and
rose, and Colonial furniture

bags all ready for
serving, may be ob-
tained at a moder-

Among other essentials are
plenty of pots for tea and
hot water, covered dishes for

painted a soft yellow to har- ate rate per thou- hot toast and plated table
monize with the yellow walls sand from W. S. | silver of good design. <A
of this room and the tea Quinby Company, | S®movar or a brass or silver
room upon which it gave. 291 Atlantic Ave- hot water kettle, with spirit

The rugs were Holland rush

nue, corner of In-

lamp to insure boiling water,

in the tea room, and old-fasb- | dia Street, Boston, | is also important. Paper
ioned braided rugs in the Massachusetts. napkins may be bought in
dining-room. Polly simply large quantities at low prices,

used what she had, the only

extra purchases being the tiffin tables and
the dining-room furniture. But an effori
was made to have the place as filled with
suggestions of foreign lands as_ possible
and at the same time as homelike and
comfortable and cozy as it could be made
with a minimum of expenditure.

This done, the real business of Polly’s
Place was begun. To describe, step by
step, how, in six vears, it grew from a
tea-and-toast shop to a little European
Peasant Inn, catering to motorists and to
people who seek a quiet. homelike refuge
after a steady diet of hotels. would take
more space than could possibly be granted,
but what Polly’s has done, any tea house
may do, if attention is paid to certain
essential details.

Equipment of Tea Room: The equip-
ment of a tea-room is the first problem
which confronts the potential hostess. It
is all-important, whether it represents a
large investment or whether it means us-
ing what one has at her command. Too
much stress cannot be laid upon the im-
portance of adaptability, as a prime asset
in starting a tea room, The tea room
itself may be an entire house built for
this purpose, or some old house, or even
one or two rooms transformed into tea
room and kitchen. It may be the corner
of a convenient porch, or a little rustic
shack at the crossways, or even the shel-
ter of a picturesque old barn. The advice
of those who have profited by bitter ex-
perience is, “‘start on a small scale, use

what you have and grow!” Yo not invest

and for table covers or run-
ners nothing is more suitable or better-
looking than Russian crash or linen in
natural color.

In the Witchen: Happy the owner of a
tea room who can have a gas range. but
in case she cannot, a four-burner oil or
gasoline stove is a good substitute, Too
much cannot be said, also, in favor of
electricity for tea room use, as it com-
bines cleanliness with celerity in serving,
and is economical where a_ special rate
for cooking by electricity is given. Polly’s

Place now has a four-burner gasoline
stove, a small portable electric range
where four units may be kept hot. a

“fleet”? of electric toasters, electric grills
and chafing dishes, a large fireless cooker,
electric coffee percolator, electric heater
for hot milk, and, in another kitchen (an
annex) a good old-fashioned cook-stove
burning wood, with an admirable oven for
baking. In fact, Polly has found that her
kitchen equipment, which has grown stead-
ily. is her best investment.

Aluminum and white enamel are best
for utensils for tea room use, with large
iron frying pans for frying chicken and
pan-broiling steaks and chops; also muftin
rings in which muffins and crumpets may
he baked, and waffle irons and large grid-
dles. Glass baking dishes and ramekins
are satisfactory. and the brown, white-
lined porcelain baking dishes and shirred
egg dishes and custard cups are also at-
tractive and useful, Labor-saving devices
include meat chopper and grinder, egg
slicers which slice a hard-boiled egg by

tiny wires into symmetrical slices, shakers
for cold drinks, a variety of sharp knives
for various purposes, egg beaters of vari-
ous kinds, a churn for mayonnaise or
whipped cream, coffee mill for grinding
the coffee freshly, and an ice bag and

toria: Lobster or Crab Newburg; Italian
Spaghetti cooked in real Italian fashion
—any one of these makes a satisfactory
luncheon topped off with ice cream and
cake, or apple pie.

wooden mallet for breaking ice—unless Overhead Charges: The person who
one has one of those ideal successfully manages a_ tea
electric refrigerators which house or inn is confronted
freeze the ice into cubes of READ for with many overhead charges.
just the proper size—and few sandwiches She must take her rent, or

tea rooms have those. An
ice-cream server which scoops
out the cream in single por-
tions is indispensable, and
also desirable is a collection
of tin cutters in fancy shapes
for sandwiches and cookies.
One must also have plenty of

cutting

paper lunch boxes and drink- obtained
ing cups always on-hand, as stores

well as paraffin paper, as
there is more money in a box
luncheon daintily prepared
and sold for a good profit
than in serving the usual afternoon tea.

The Food: Have a specialty. It may be
waffles or fried chicken or cinnamon toast,
or one of many things, But if you have
it. have it always on hand. Puffy brown
doughnuts with creamy sage or full cream
cheese form one combination, hot ginger-
bread and whipped cream, or gingerbread
and cheese another. Freshly made cottage
and fresh buttermilk are always
in demand, as are all sorts of homemade
pickles, jellies, and jams.

Mnglish crumpets, split and toasted,
served with tea and jam, or hot buttered
Knglish muffins, old-fashioned griddle
cakes, or hot waffles with honey or sirup

never go begging.

cheese

Many tea houses specialize in cake of a
special sort. Of these, Fudge Cake, Lady
Baltimore Cake, Angel Cake, Chocolate
Cake, Orange Cake, and White Swiss
Cake have proved most popular.

It is desirable to have a_ well-filled
cookie jar with caraway or oatmeal cook-
ies, and also some animal crackers for
children. These, with a cup of cocoa or
a glass of milk, will often solve the
problem for the kiddies while their elders
are sipping their forbidden tea. <A little
table and some wicker stools provide chil-
dren with a place all their very own.

In addition to the @ la carte dishes, the
average tea room will do well to decide
upon some simple luncheon to be served
at midday at a fixed price per plate.
Among specialties of this kind that have
proved popular are Country Sausage and
Scrambled Eggs on Toast: Mixed Grills;
Fried or Smothered Chicken with Corn
Iritters, Waffles or Tlot- Biscuits: Chick-
en Pie: Chicken A la King or A la Vic-

may be purchased
in long loaves that | to
will cut into fifty-
six slices.

which can be regu-
lated for thick or
thin slices may be

Lewis and Conger,
New York City.

taxes and insurance, first, add

it the amount of wages

paid employes weekly, the

Bread- initial cost of equipment and
machines supplies, cost of laundry, ice,

electric light, telephone; and
other incidentals, not forget-
ting deterioration and break-

from age, the latter usually being
such as a large item. Out of these

may be figured the approxi-
mate cost of doing business,
and she will see that she has
a large bill of expenses to
meet before any profit may be counted
upon. But this is a condition obtaining
in every business, and should not deter
her from taking the plunge.

Hn passant, unless served in very large
numbers, there is not very much money in
teas. The tea house which will also serve
other meals, either table Whéte or a la
carte, will ultimately make more money ;
but the one which can grow into a small
inn and realize also from the rental of
rooms is the one which has most success-
fully solved the problem, particularly on
the route of motorists and tourists.
Every hotel man knows that his money
comes from rooms, and not from food, as
high overhead charges and many other
vexatious things combine to take from the
prefit on meals. A room, barring Jaun-
dry and the heating of water for the
bath, represents clear profit, and a satis-

factory one, upon one’s investment, Dain-
ty, chintz-hung bedrooms with soft mat-

lavender scented linen sare
worth much to a tea house or inn, and it
will be found that such accommodiitions
soon pay for themselves and provide the
best sort of advertising.

tresses and

Apropos of Advertising: The best-pay-
ing investment is a small space in the
automobile Blue Book, which is the Bible
of the motor tourist. For a small sum,
the tea house may also be represented
upon the touring maps of the State Hotel
Associations giving the routes which lead
to it from all points. Newspaper adver-
tising is expensive and the results and
returns from it problematical. Attractive
signs along the motor roads are essential
and photographs or post cards of the tea
house are usually hung upon the bulletin

boards of the nearest hotels without charge.

Post cards may be sold at five cents each :
and a desk with writing materials, good
pens, clean blotters and penny stamps,
should not be forgotten. Every post card
mailed helps to advertise the place in the
hest way, for every satisfied patron is
likely, on this selfsame post card, to rec-
ommend it to his friends, and there soon
develops a highly specialized system of ad-
vertising carried on by patrons of the
place without cost to the proprietor. One
could even afford to give away cards for
this purpose.

A small discount upon current prices
given the people of the town in which the
tea house is located is still another form
of advertising not to be overlooked.

Finally, do not forget the chauffeurs!
Polly’s Place makes a practice of giving
them their luncheons or some refreshment
without charge, and the glad tidings soon

spread to the garages where chauffeurs
congregate, with immediate results.

And now just a word as to the gift shop
end of the business. If a combination
of tea house and gift shop seems desirable,
do not let one interfere with the other.
Do not sacrifice the tea to the gifts. It is
better, when possible, to set aside a sepa-
rate room for “souvenirs. Polly’s Place
has Colonial handmade bedspreads and
table covers, sold for the benefit of the
Southern Industrial Association, and col-
orful little bronze tea bells, knockers, book
ends, door stops, and ash trays, in parrot
designs, hand-colored, easily portable, and
of a character to remind one always of the
other Polly and her Place, Also, delici-
ous maple-sugar confections. Many tea
rooms have a woman’s exchange where
the townspeople may bring their wares to
sell on commission. Others have antiques,
hooked rugs, and china.

ND as for this

private dining
room, could you resist
the invilalion of these
debonair Windsor
chairs to sit in them
and enjoy the delect-
able fare which Polly |
serves upon that gen- |

erously proportioned
table?

ERE is a glimpse

of Polly’s restful-
looking chintz - hung
bedrooms which man-
age to give the tran-
sient motor-lourist the
feeling that he is an
honored visitor in an
extremely jolly private
home.

ILE first essential js Absolute Clean-
china

liness, Glass and
everything spotless and dustle
The next Pleasant

Politeness and anxiety to plea

is

People to serve.

Some of Polly’s Pointers

feature.

IXeep an ey
waitress has
good service

shining,

se those who

are spending their money, and to give things are ps
. r . . .

them what they most want. Taking service is qu

trouble pays better dividends in a_ te: dishes and n«

house than anywhere else in

The third essential is Quali
very best of everything, It
nomical to have the
freshest eggs and the most pe
the best
finest that |

materials can

Poor quality makes for waste.

tion is soon noted and the
right to expect the best for h

thickest

tea and coffee and, in short, the

patron

business.
ty. Buy the
is more eco-
cream, the
rfect butter,

spoil an oth

Provide,
for the
towels and s¢

hours, a tabl
and games, a

ye procured.
Imperfec-
has a

is money.

guests forget
a place of pi

Another is Tact: If a complaint is price for ev
made, try to adjust it. It is better to decidedly goc

give a person a
send him away satisfied than

carrying tales of unpleasant

out into the highways and byways,

Strive for atmosphere
simplicity. Remember the
and contentment.

al

free luncheon or

dish
Better a ¢
ing tea and a piece of perfec
heavy cake and a lukewarm beverage.

tea and
to have him
experiences

away now a
standing on

sugar, a litt]
with it, dies to take
of herbs
up of steam-

t toast than

1d,

r

the check.

ean absent i

if
chauffeurs with

Make everyone feel welcome.

cious little gift

ing is inestimable,

A register or guest book is an agreeable

eon the service. See that the

mastered the principles of
and waiting at table, that

issed upon the left, that the
ick and noiseless. Clattering
yisy talk in the kitchen often
erwise delightful meal.

you can, a porch or room
wash basin and
yap, Magazines or books with

which to while away their long waiting

e where they may be served,
nd ash trays,

Let your
. if possible, that they are in

iblic entertainment, paying a
rything they have. It is a

1 practice to give something
nd then—a basket of apples
a table with a little card in-

scribed “Help vourself’’—a cake of maple

e bag of cookies for the kid-
on their journey—any gra-
which is not included in
The value of this in advertis-
The more a tea house
tself from a commercial and

Make the tea room a homey place, with grasping atmosphere — the ‘“we-want-
an air of restfulness. A couch to lie  nothing-from-you-but-your-money” — spirit
upon, a good book to read, a place to the more successful a foundation will it
write a letter and a well-equipped dress- build for itseif.
ing-room are essentials often overlooked. Amy Lyon Phillips.

Miss Crump Serves Crumpets in The Crumperie
OR several years this Experience has shown us
announcement has been that location is the most im-
sent out each fall. and each portant item to consider for
fall it has found a_ public any tea room. For one
eager to be served with the thing. the location to a great

crumpets, light luncheon, and
afternoon tea.

The story of The Crump-
erie back five years to
the time when ill-health had
made my chosen profession
impossible. Acting upon the
advice of friends, my mother
and I decided

foes

to open a ‘tea
room, It was necessary to
begin very simply, doing
everything ourselves. Be-

cause of this, and because we
wanted to be among interest-
ing people, Greenwich Village
as our location.

a quiet place where the

friends for tea or luncheon

ready welcome and real enthusiasm.

In this region of studios,
workers along
literary and artistic lines could meet their

ad

Sbiss Crump —————.

of the Cr

we=—,

+
t

gif
cupied the
ment that p
People wh
are likely to
tal

> was chosen

«

met with a

necessary

extent determines the kind of
tea room you will have,

Wherever you are, select,
possible, the first floor of
unusual little building.
Your place should be easily

if

some

reached, for the out-of-the-
way tea room must be “dis-
covered,” and it takes a long
time for it to become even
fairly busy.

The first Crumperie had
half of a little building on
Sheridan Square. <A_ tiny

shop called “The Treasure Box” oc-

remaining half, an arrange-
roved mutually helpful.

o know nothing of tea rooms
think a large amount of capi-
and a mistake frequently

Here the atmosphere
is intimate and informal

made by the beginner is to spend all her

capital on equipment, No matter how
much capital you may possess, begin
simply. An old New England cook book

is responsible for the statement that “A
little Ingenuity added to almost any ma-
4erial that comes to hand will make a
tasty pie.”” We found this equally true of
tea rooms.

Kitchen tables and chairs were bought
very cheaply at a department store, and
painted.. A distinctive old sideboard was
acquired and an old settle was found in
a neighboring back yard. Some home-
spun and bedspreads which had been in
our family for years were used as hang-
ings, which, with prints from “Godey’s
Lady’s Book,” make the setting homelike
and distinctive.

The problem of table linen was easily
solved. For table runners, kitchen towel-
ing with a blue line running on the edge
was bought at one of the five-and-ten-cent
stores. This, by the way, is still doing
duty. A good quality paper napkin simply
folded is not disliked, and saves laundry
bills. We chose a good plated ware in a
plain pattern, thus simplifying the clean-
ing question: and we use a gold and white
china with little brown teapots. I found

straw mats, which I stained the same
color. By using what we had, and buy-

ing only the simplest of equipment, we
made one hundred dollars do to cover our
first month’s rent and the furnishings
which, while they have been supp!emented
from time to time, are still in active serv-
ice.

We had no definite ideas at first as to
the kind of food we were going to serve:
but we made up our menu as people asked
for their favorite dishes, being careful
not to get too large a variety. I believe
in becoming well known for, say, one or
two special things. My mother’s nicely

How about a cozy tea
“a voisin” on the old settle 2
toasted

“crumpets’” and the

browned
sponge cake soon became very popuiar.
By the way, always have only the best

tea and coffee. My mother deserves the
entire credit for the excellence of our
food, always serving hot things hot, and
cold things cold. Right here let me say
that a mother or an older person is a
great asset to a young girl who is contem-
plating the opening of a tea room or any
similar venture.

The name of our tea room, ‘The
Crumperie,” just happened, our name
being Crump; but I would suggest that
ordinarily the name should come as an in-
spiration, Perhaps your color scheme or
the place as a whole, when it settles down
and acquires a “‘fixed’”’ look, will suggest

its own name. It’s not a bad idea to
open nameless, and ask for ideas among

your customers. For your announcement
ecards I would suggest a sketch of the
exterior. The one which a friend did for
us was from the first a real help, and
when taken home served as a quaint re-
minder of the place. Send the announce-
ment cards to your friends and the kind
of people from whom you wish to form
your clientele,

Now, the fact that it is a tea room does
not mean that its methods of business
should be slipshod. We have always made
it a rule to be very punctua! about the
opening and closing of our little place.
The winter hours are 11:30 a. M. to 6
Pp, M.; thus taking in the light @ la carte
lunch and the tea service. We have al-
ways felt that if you serve a heavy lunch
and dinner, vour place is no longer a tea
room, but a dining-room or restaurant.
In the summer time, the hours are from
8 A. M. to 2 P. M.:; because we find the
morning hours and breakfast more agree-
able to our guests.

Viss Crump and * Bee.”

The Chimney Corner

Would you like to know a place where you could drop around for tea,

For luncheon or for dinner?
Quite at home.

It’s a place where you can be
It’s quiet, cozy, has a charming atmosphere,

Food that sort of makes you hungry, and it really isn’t dear.
Come and sit beside our fire, when it’s cold or when yow re blue,
When your working time is over, when yowve nothing else to do.

You are welcome.

HE two questions I am asked oftenest

by hundreds of interested patrons
are: “How in the world did you see the
possibilities in this funny little house?’
And, “How do you know what to provide
for anything so fickle

as the publie’s appe-
tite?”
Ilow did I see the

possibilities in the
tumbledown little house
which is now serving
three to four thousand
persons every month?
I hardly know. I sup-
pose it was a woman’s
intuition, Certainly
every male who heard
of my project was
either openly scornful
or inwardly full of
pity for my inevitable
failure.

How J decided to
leave off school-teach
ing and open a tea
room is a story in it-
self. In facet, the whole
history of the Chimney
Corner is a chain of
fascinating stories that
would take a lifetime
to write.

It was early in the
spring of 1919 that I
first started hunting
for a suitable place
for a tea room. I wanted a quaint place
with what is known as “atmosphere,” and
I scoured all the side streets near the
shopping section for a house that met my
imagined needs, Nothing was quite right.
Then, suddenly, one day I saw my Chim-
ney Corner. I had passed it a thousand
times with unseeing eyes. A funny tum-
bledown little house, well over a hundred
years old, that had somehow miraculously
weathered the advance of the Big City
and fairly exuded “atmosphere” from
every dilapidated corner. It nestled
against its tall neighbors in the coziest
fashion, apparently quite unconscious that
the new St, Paul Street Boulevard, then

The display card suggests most happily "0
the unobtrusive friendliness of the place

Drop in any time, and smoke or have some tea;
It is homelike and attractive, and yow ll like it.

Come and see!
Tom Powers.

nearing completion, had made its loca-
tion one of the most commanding in the
city. Iveryone else seemed unconscious
of the value of that particular corner.

“Why, in heaven’s name, do you want
to go down in that
hole? No one will ever
come down Centre
Street. It’s a rotten
section.”” So spoke my
masculine business
friends—fraternal and
otherwise. In vain I
argued that the loca-
tion had infinite prom-
ise: one block east of
Charles, the main
shopping street of Bal-
timore:; one block
south of the Washing-
ton Monument, a city
landmark, and eventu-
ally on a prominent
automobile  thorough-
fare, FEXven my _ land-
lord sat in the seat of
the scornful.

“What, that old
dump!” he exclaimed
when I called on him
in regard to a_ lease.
“Why, I’m going to
tear it down. It’s not
fit to live it—no heat,
plumbing, nothing
but a shell of a build-
ing. That’s no place
for a first-class tea room!”

It’s a long story, too long to tell here.

But within a week I had signed a two-
year lease (it was the longest I could

get) at a rent of forty dollars a month
and the promise of a coat of paint for the
exterior—nothing else. The landlord
would waste no other money on the “old
dump.”

“Yes, you can do any improving you
want,”’ he remarked; “but don’t ever say
I didn’t warn you. TI think you're sink-
ing good money into an old hole. But
have your woman’s way, Lord knows,
you seem confident enough. And I hope
you're right,” he added by way of en-

couragement. “If anyone can do it, you
can,” said my best friend; but I knew the
compliment had its reservations.

Vision Plus Pluck

T was March. I was still teaching, and

booked for a summer camp coun-
sellor, so there was no possibility of open-
ing till fall. My luck began immediately.
The building was rented by the month
to two wholesale florists, who were de-
lighted to sub-rent from me, as with the
Haster season coming on they did not
wish te move. They stayed on till Sep-
tember, when I returned from camp full
of health and teeming with ideas gathered
through the spring and summer.

There was an endless amount of work
—installing heat, plumbing, ranges, and
all the many necessities of a tea room:
and there were nights when I did little
sleeping; when the estimates for im-
provements bobbed up and down
my eyes in figures rather
staggering in propor-
tions. But always
underneath the
panicky feelings
I knew my
Chimney
Corner was
ago.) My
inquiries
showed that
all tea rooms
within a ra-

as

before

4
See, | ;

» » »

dius of six

blocks were

paying from

$1.200 to $4.500

a year rent. My coat
rent was $480. I t
reckoned that even
$2.000 in improvements

would be covered in two years in the dif-
ference in rent. In six months I had paid
for my improvements, in addition to a
personal salary. The next season of eight
months (I close from June to October)
more than paid for my equipment of
$3,000.

I served 72 persons the first day; 1.492
the first month, a patriotic number and
easy to remember; 15,072 in the first sea-

son of six months. In May, 1921, the
last month before my summer vacation,
my patronage almost reached the 4,000

mark, an average of well over 900 a week.
The vision is justified and my dream js a
solid, paving proposition,

The house really named itself. Situated
on a corner that protrudes itself conspicu-

ously, a corner so much a corner that it
forms an angle of some seventy degrees

instead of ninety degrees, the house boasts
a great chimney that outlines itself

against the expanse of the next building,
and affords cozy fireplaces in almost every
room, so that “The Chimney Corner” was
the only name it could have.

The florists had painted the house black,
and, evidently believing in advertising, had

covered it with a myriad signs. Gray
paint with apple-green trimmings. and

window boxes of geraniums and ivy for

color, made an unbelievable transforma-
tion and attracted immediate attention.
For the interior I chose a warm gray

water-paint as a background for my walls,
and a deeper gray for the floors. I
painted my furniture and shelves black,

and relieved the dullness” with bright
chintzes, colorful Japanese prints, and
gavly painted trays and china. The neu-

tral gray made anv color combination
possible. For my china I chose a stock
pattern with a bright border and matched
the colors as much as possible and in my
chintzes and ornaments. I bought
odd china in solid colors, but always with
an eve to my own stock pat-
tern, as I had been too

some

often jarred by an
array of motley
china on a tray

to care to fall

into the same

. error, When

\ rush orders

*\ come into a

| busy kitchen

one Cannot

ty StOp? 0) “Se=

J lect suitable

* colors in the
chinaware.

I knocked down

partitions, thus

making one room of

my ground floor, except
for a small dressing-room,
and leaving the quaint stairwav with its

worn treads open to view. The largest
room on the second floor I chose for a
kitchen, with a dumb waiter to the first
floor and another to the attic to avoid
confusion. The other two rooms opening
on a hallway I made into serving-rooms
which could be used for overflow or for

private parties. The attic I fitted up very
informally with wide divans and_ big
wooden settles, upholstered in black denim
which made an excellent background for
cushions in variegated colors.

“Duck Your Head”

SIGN on the stair, a black duck on

a yellow background, warns patrons
to “Duck Your Head,” for the low-
bridged stairway, and continues to cause
untold merriment, as the order is not al-
ways carefully obeyed

The whole tea house, in fact, carries out
the informality of the “Duck” sign, for I
have long since discovered that most peo-
ple prefer home comfort to austere style.
Negro of a high grade give
deferential service, and an old far-ily serv-
ant, with several of
gives the cooking the home flavor that is
so rarely found in a public restaurant. A
young and cousin take over much
of the responsibility with keen enthusiasm
and the whole happy household of inter-
a leaves me free to act
In this way, I can enhance the
home atmosphere that already pervades
the cozy little house.

waitresses

assistants course,

sister

ested “servers” as

hostess.

Pleasing the Public’s Fickle Appetite
SERVE 4 la carte lunch and tea, and a

| four-course table d@héte dinner at one
dollar and twenty-five cents, though the lat-
ter is different from the usual table Whéte

in that it allows several choices in the
meat course and dessert, a popular fea
ture, I have found. By giving a choice

at dinner, I not only please my patrons
but I am able to use luncheon desserts
and entrées, and so avoid waste or carry-

ing over to the next day. In the same
way, what is left from dinner can often
be utilized in an appetizing way for
lunch; beef can be made into individual
meat pies, lamb into croquettes, chicken
into patties. In my @ la carte luncheon
and tea menus I change the hot dishes
from day to day, both for variety and
economy; but have the salads, about ten

= wie

On page 9 you see the

discouraging materials from which this gay interior was created

10

in number, always on order, as it is just
as easy when one has lettuce and mayon-
naise on hand to make one salad an-
other. The same true of sandwiches,
the ingredients for which I have ready in
covered glass bowls. making every order
quite fresh. This plan simplifies the plan-
ning of the menu and gives a far larger
range of choice with no extra effort.

as

is

Food for All Tastes

PLAN my hot dishes, some six in num-

ber, satisfy varied tastes; dainty
croquettes and patties for women, whole-
some meat pies and steaks for men, chick-
en or Jamb chops for delicate appetites,
eggs for vegetarians, and some inexpensive
dish for those who watch their pennies.

By treating the servants generously IL
find them very reasonable, and they gladly
eat what will not carry over, leaving the
things I can utilize.

I always try to keep in the refrigerator
ham, chickens, chops, and steaks so that 1f
my dinner meats run short I can make a
substitution, Vegetables can be readily
supplied by my pantry of canned goods,
though I like to have fresh vegetables.

to

It is surprising how comfortably the
a la carte orders are distributed among
the five or six hot dishes I provide. It

is seldom that anything actually gives out.
When it does, I try to see the patrons
myself. The personal touch seems to take
away the irritation, and I almost always
find my “guests” delightfully considerate.

Blizabeth Lager.

ite Feu Gourmet

[4s entrance hidden in the shadowed
beauty of an old Italian courtyard, its
very name obscuring it to many, Le Petit
Gourmet attracts and holds those who,
again and again, descend the little flight of
steps which: takes them to a place of old-
world charm. Then, too, there is a cour-
tesy and simplicity of service, and a qual-
ity of food which is rarely found in the
busy rush and tumble
of a metropolitan res-
taurant, And yet this
transplanted bit of
France lies almost in
the heart of Chicago.
A few blocks’ walk
over the Michigan
Boulevard Bridge with
its fast - encroaching
business and its hurry
of rushing automobiles,

buildings rest with a caress on the stones
of the gray courtyard,
It is in this cool retreat to the right as

vou pass through the iron gates that the
little flight of steps beckons you to Le

At the foot of the flight
in small

Petit Gourmet.

a wooden door, glazed squares,

opens into a short and dark passage. <A
few steps more, and you pass through
another door into the
quaintest of low-ceil-
inged rooms, divided
down the middle by
arched partitions. The

room of your first en-
trance was originally
Le Petit Bazaar—the
beginning of the pres-
ent tea room. Its walls
are covered with a red
and white paper print-

brings the tired shop- ed with continuous
per into this little scenes which remind
haven of brightness you of the ‘“Beggar’s
and quiet, of excellent Opera.” There are
cuisine, and of silent, red chairs with rush
lefiicient, and smiling seats, and small red
service. tables.

As the tea room par- Nevertheless, it is to
takes, in large meas- the next room that
ure, of the character most people turn. For
of the building in a eo it has a wide stone
which it has its exis- me fireplace; its mantel-
tence, the origin of the A bit of the Continent in Chicago top is always decor-
“Courtyard,” as it is ated with a spray of
called, seems to have a very definite gracefully arranged bittersweet or a sun-
relation to it, Some two years ago a Hower blossom and flanking the posies
group of artists presented to the owners are quaint pieces of French china. It is

of two old and unsightly buildings on the
southeast corner of Michigan Avenue and
Ontario Street ideas for remodeling them.
The artists wanted studios, and the two
old buildings, totally unrelated, had many
possibilities, The changes in design, the
delays, and the seeming hopelessness of
the task all fade into an insignificant past
when compared with the achievement
which was brought about by the work of
many people, and the unfailing sympathy
and commercial generosity of the owners
of the property.

It is sufficient to know that from
old and neglected buildings two which are
beautiful and architecturally related have
grown, their similarity emphasized and
their relation made more obvious by a con-

two

necting areh with a wrought-iron gate,
which opens into a stone-flagged court-
vard, lined with arches. Vines and

shrubs grow frem boxes and out of breaks

in the flagging. A bronze-green fountain
splashes during all the hot months of
summer, and the shadows of the tall

11

here, too, that small, high, latticed win-
dows let in all the light that is possible
in the space that stands above ground.
For it is only because of an old-fashioned
Victorian basement that the place exists
it Built-in line the walls,
comfortably upholstered in the brightest
of yellow and blue striped denim. The
walls are painted a deep French blue
that has a cast of green in it and, on the
spaces between the dividing arches, great

as is. settles

ornamental and formal vases of flowers
are stenciled.
The round and the sguare blue tables

are topped with wood covered with glass
and stand on bases of wrought-iron. On
every table is placed a slender blue glass
vase, usually filled with sunflowers or
dahlias or some other bright. old-fashioned
flower. <A few of the tables stand in the
middle of the floor, and rush-bottom chairs
with backs of blue wood are placed beside
them; others are thrust into cozy corners
where the forms the still
others run along the wall. with half their

settle seats,

seating space provided by the benches, the
other half requiring chairs, In facet,
there’s a turn for every taste, and it’s a
rare person or group of persons who can’t
find just the place that’s wanted.

A swinging door at the back ‘of this
inner room leads into the kitchen. In
front of it, and at right angles, a Jong
wooden counter, painted blue, holds a
most commercial cash register and a beau-
tiful supply of cakes and small pastries.

But somehow it remains true that, no
matter how charming the place, people
won’t return to it again and again at meal
time or at tea time if the food isn’t good.
And almost any sort of place will bring
patrons in great numbers if the food is
good, When. the two are combined, as is
the case here, there is an irresistible at-
traction.

Le Petit Gourmet serves luncheon and
dinner and afternoon tea. And it’s hard
to determine just which one is most
popular.

Of course, tea brings the women-folks,
shoppers and gossipers and entertainers,
with their guests. Luncheon and supper,
however, bring men in almost the same
proportion as women, and that says a lot
for the food and the comfortable atmos-
phere of the place, for you won't find men
where either is poor.

The menus are limited in the choice of-
fered, but the quality never varies. The

price of supplies is high in a big city and
the price of meals must be, accordingly,
high too. But prices in Le Petit Gour-
met are lower for the quality and quantity
of food served than in any similar place
in Chicago.

Tor luncheon there is frequently only one
entrée, although some other is usually
kept in reserve in case of need: <A typical
luncheon menu is the following :

Lobster Farcé
Creamed Potatoes
Stuffed Celery Salad

Dessert
Coffee Tea Iced Tea Wilk
This luncheon costs one dollar and a

half, and for one dollar the patron may
have the same luncheon with a choice of
either salad or dessert instead of both.
Lobster Farcé is a dish in which creamed
fresh lobster is replaced in emptied half
lobster shells, covered with bread crumbs
and cheese, and baked until it is brown.
And what a delightful dish it is! ‘The
creamed potatoes as they are served here
are a delectable vegetable, rich in butter
and milk, cut in half-inch dices and
cooked tender but not too soft. The let-
tuce of which the salad is made is erisp
and cold; the celery is tender, and stuffed
with an excellent imported Roquefort,
the French dressing all that can possibly

Inside Le Petit Gourmet a stone mantel, casement windows and comfortable built-in settees help
fo carry out the foreign atmosphere of the entrance court

he desired as to ingredients and mixing.
The tea and coffee are not only well made,
but are of brands selected for their special
excellence and adhered to faithfully. Any
tea does not do for Le Petit Gourmet,
And the fortunate one who chooses des-
sert obtains a regular birthday party sur-
prise. Tor the ice cream js always home
made, flavored with fresh fruits and rich
in cream, ‘The cake may well be called a
“dream’’—Lady Baltimore, caramel or ¢o-

and the sandwiches prepared for each
order. In short, the patron of Le Petit
Gourmet receives the kind of services and
food which he would receive as guest in
a pleasant home, and the service is of
the same satisfying kind.

The waitresses are all middle-aged,
kindly women with soft yoices and good
manners, who are dressed in black with
neat white aprons. More than one woman
has been overheard trying to “steal”? one

coanut—of fine texture, uniform and rich. of them for her own home. ‘There is a
Customers may buy it to spirit of coOperation. They
take home from the counter have not appointed places,
at one dollar a pound. HETHER but wait on table wherever
Dinner usually offers two you are they are required, If one
entrées, and almost invaria- Dlanninicwna ted maid is too busy a second
bly the choice consists of room, an inn, or a will help.
broiled chicken and __ filet full-fledged restau- This spirit, especially, is
mignon, But people never rant, you. should due to the good judgment and

tire of them. A tender, juicy
steak, broiled until its out-
side is browned and its in-
terior still red, or a young
chicken, firm and piping hot
from the broiler, never fails

ley’s

it.

have at your elbow
Miss Alice Brad-
new’ book,
“Cooking for Prof-
The price is
$3.00, and it should

tact of the manager, one of
the prettiest, most energetic
little blond women who ever
turned a personality to ac-
count.

The china, too, is an unus-

to attract. Variety comes in be ordered from | wal source of joy to newcom-
the vegetables and the salad The American ers and to old customers.
as well as in the dessert. Home Economics | Most of it is made by R.

There is always a simple | Association, 506 | ®uimper in France—a rough-
vegetable besides potatoes— | West 69th Street, | ly glazed earthenware, un-
beets sliced and served in Chicago, Illinois. even in texture and in shape,
butter or diced in cream, decorated with stiff figures or

creamed carrots, buttered or

creamed onions. string beans, or fresh
peas. The vegetable is always simple, in-
variably well prepared. It’s the sort of
thing vou enjoy eating, without thinking
much about it, at home, and that you miss
so greatly in restaurants where a_ well-
cooked vegetable is almost unknown. ‘he
salad consists of head lettuce with French
dressing, or stuffed celery and lettuce or
lettuce and tomatoes—again the simple
salad, cold, crisp, and excellently dressed.
The choice of dessert usually wide,
comprising several kinds of cake, an ice
cream or two, and frequently fruit pies
or tarts,

The dinner is one dollar and a half with
dessert or salad. while with both it is two
dollars. With the two-dollar dinner there
is also soup or a fruit appetizer of some
sort, At night both cake and ice cream
are served as a dessert; luncheon limits
the customer to a choice of one.

For afternoon tea there are simple bey-
erages, correctly prepared. Various kinds
of tea are made with fresh boiling water
and served with a pitcher of hot water.
There are coffee and milk and hot choco-
late. Toast, English muffins, rolls, little
cakes, plain sandwiches, and a limited num-
ber of salads as well as ice cream and
cake are on the @ la menu. The

is

carte
toast is crisp, and there is plenty of but-
ter with it: the muffins are freshly made

13

quaint flowers and birds in
bright colors. There are dragon-mouthed
teapots and octagonal cups. And _ it
such a lot cf fun to serve ail the chicken
at once in order to see what silly little
man is painted on the platter!

The foundation of the places lies in the
foundation of a much older place, whose
sole object is the production of good food.
And the production of good food, accord-
ing to its instigator, Mrs. William Vaughn
Moody, lies in the simple preparation of
wholesome materials—food prepared as it
is at home over an old-fashioned stove in
pots and pans such as are used in any
kitchen, So the Home Delicacies Associa-
tion came into being, and Le Petit Gour-
met is, in a sense, the child of this asso-
ciation, obtaining some of its supplies
from the mother place, but following, in
the preparation of all its foods, the same
“home” idea, the same simplicity of choice
and preparation.

The decorations—the painted walls, the
gay furniture, the upholstered seats re-
quire imagination and a color sense, a
decorative notion of the fitness of certain
tvpes of furniture for certain places, but
they entail only a slight expense. It is
good food, a quiet atmosphere, pleasant
service, and reasonable prices that bring
their reward’ in the way of patronage,
and again and again, good food.

Bleanor B. Atkinson.

is

Just a little, well-
kept farm-place in the
suburb of a Mid-Western cily

All alone, up near
the house there stood a
lovely, picturesque pine-tree

Lone Pine Inn

W/E were discussing what we could
‘¥Y do if my husband gave up being a
My health had brok-
en down, He was tired of the eternal
chasing about. We were country-born,
and longed for a patch of ground and a
Jersey cow.

In a moment of idle dreaming, I
“Let’s start a tea room.”

We found an ideal location, seven and
a half acres, three miles from town, on a
macadamized primary highway, just
across the road from one of the largest
flowing springs in the state, a well-known
local landmark.

An electric pump forced spring water
into the pipes of the bathroom and kitch-

traveling salesman.

said,

en. And, my, what a big kitchen! <A
furnace dominated the basement. There

was plenty of parking space for cars at
the end of the driveway. The lawn was
nice—an surrounded by shade
All alone, up near the house, stood
a picturesque pine tree. “Lone Pine
Inn,’ I said, when we first drove up the
driveway, and the name has remained,

oblong

trees,

Of course, it wasn’t a lovely o!d Colon-
ial house, such as many tea rooms in the
East have as a setting. It wasn’t even
a’ log cabin. It was just such a little,
well-kept, farm place as you find about
the suburbs of all Mid-Western cities.
We realized that looks count a great deal

14

in the success of such a place, so we ob-
tained the of an artist in the
planning and decorating of it. Upon his
advice, we threw four of the lower rooms
together. We had to tear out plaster
partitions to do it, and we had to leave
an irregularly shaped plaster pillar effect
in the center to support the floor above
and carry the chimney through; but, with
the addition of little corner shelves, the
effect is rather charming.

This room and the large kitchen, where
I have a big electric range, take up the
lower floor. A summer kitchen in a little
detached building contains the coal range
in summer, A roomy porch across the
front, screened. forms a waiting place for
our guests and can be used for a dining-
We our-

services

room overflow in-an emergency.
selves live on the second floor,

Our decorator rather shocked us by in-
sisting that the oak woodwork be painted.
Upon his assurance that it wouldn’t look
like the ordinary painted woodwork of a
farmhouse kitchen, we gave in and have
never regretted it. The walls were fres-
a light gray right over the wall
paper, and the woodwork was painted a
light blue-green mottled with a gray tan
of the same depth.

As a foundation for the color scheme
our decorator found a bolt of cretonne that
had not sold because of its daring colors.

coed

Brilliant orange-red tree trunks support- medallions, are painted in the same gay

Trent >
ing masses of blue-green leaves run riot colors as the cretonne. The pine in each
over a black background, and _ red-violet one has a bright orange-red trunk.

birds do nothing to subdue the effect. It The red pine tree trunk was made a
wouldn’t go at all in a sick-room, but it reality with the aid of my younger son.
was just the thing for our tea room. We used water-colors and he did a very

It was so brilliant that it had to be used thorough job, even going well out on the
sparingly, and the material, split, was smaller branches. Oil paint was used only
sufficient for curtain width, hanging from on the rough loose bark of the main trunk,
especially made wooden lambrequins at as we were afraid of injuring the tree.
the top, I went to the store the other day The effect of this exotic looking growth
to get some more cretonne, and found that is accentuated by its being surrounded
there had been a sudden rush on it since with the not unusual-looking farm front
the opening of the Inn and every bit was yard, A hanging sign by the roadway

gone. explains and invites.
Luckily my husband and eldest son, who The lighting of the dining-room was a

did all the electrical wiring, are very great problem, We wanted individual,
clever with too!s. Together they built low-hanging, cozy lights over each table,
the porch, put in the French doors ieading but we also wished to vary the placing of
from it to the dining-room and made all the tables at short notice, and we wanted

the tables. These ta-_ to use the room occa~-
bles have circular tops — sionally for dancing.

Pe <9
thirty-six inches wide, ~~
and seat four people.
They are made in ag
very simple gate-leg
style that allows them
to be folded against
the wall when dancing
is to be indulged in.
When a banquet table
is desired, there are a
number of filling sec-
tions that can be put
in between _ tables.
These fillers rest upon .
the upper edges of the ,
lowered tops and are &
held in place with iron
pins.

The chairs are of
the ordinary soJid-
wooden -seat kitchen
variety, glorified with
a painted oval panel
nailed to the back. The raising of the lights an
table tops and chair easy task and extra
seats are painted the By our lighting scheme we can move tables wire hooks on the ceil-
same bright blue-green frequently and still have individual low- ing make possible the

Our decorator solved
it by using the brass
canopies to the central
fixtures already in the
rooms. He painted
them to match his col-
or scheme—disearding
the brass chains and
glass shades, and sub-
stituting lanterns of
his own construction,
hung by white lamp
cord that passes over
inconspicuous wire
hooks in the ceiling.
An iron ring at the top
of each lantern per-
- mits of its being raised
and hung from _ the
ceiling hook, out of the
{way for dancing. A
pole with a hook on
the end makes’ the

as the foliage in the hanging lamps over each table shifting of the lights
cretonne and are mot- with the tables.

tled with a deep blue—the mottle being The lanterns themselves were made of
done with a sponge, This makes an at- heavy water-color paper dyed a_ bright

tractive and very practical finish, as it orange-red by dipping in boiling dye, and
does not show seratches and wear as a paraffined ; the sheets of paper were rolled
plain surface would. The chair seats are into cylinders, and their tops and bottoms
shellacked to keep them from getting clamped between black enameled embroid-
sticky in hot weather; the remaining ery hoops: a heavy cardboard ton with

parts of the chairs and tables are flat- three ventilation holes completed each one,
enameled black. The men like ’em by day because they are
Small panels of wall board bearing red, and the ladies like ’em at night be-
paintings of the lone pine (highly con- cause they give beautiful complexions.
ventionalized) shading a_ structure re- The “tone” of the place was very soon
motely resembling our new porch, decor- established: A point was made of firmly

ate the wall panels between the doors discouraging. the name ‘“road-house’’ as
and windows. ‘These panels, as well as applying to the Inn, Cards mailed to the
the chair backs and wooden: lainbrequin members of the Country Club and yarious

15

other organizations announced the open-
ing. Promiscuous advertising which
might bring undesirable trade was avoided.
A discreet “tad” now and then, to call
attention to a special holiday meal proved
effective. The society editors have been
very kind about publishing all items re-
ferring to dinners and other functions held
here under the title “At Lone Pine Inn.”

While I serve tea in the afternoons, it
has become only a small part of our busi-

ness. I have ice cream and cake for chance
comers, out on drives, The dinners,
though, and luncheons, breakfasts, card
parties, showers, and what not, are by
special reservation. An extra fee is

charged for the floor for a dinner dance.
We specialize on chicken dinners, and
they haye proved so very popular that it
is only very seldom that anything differ-

ent is desired. Water cress from the
spring, and cottage cheese are much

called for. We have our Jersey cow now ;
in fact, three of her, and churn part of
our butter when we do not have too great

a run on whipped cream. We have a pen
of pigs, and many rabbits for winter
stews. We raised our own strawberries,
grapes, tomatoes, peas, Sweet corn, etc.

All this means plenty of work, but sys-
tem saves a great deal, Mr. Neville and
the boys do the outside work and kill and
dress the chickens, My kitchen girl and
myself do the cake-baking and salad-mak-
ing, and even the chicken-frying, several
hours Ddefore the meal for which they are
intended. When the chicken is partly
cooked, into the air-tight oven of my elec-
tric stove it goes, with just a bit of water
in the pan, and emerges later a most de-
licious brown.

June, the month of opening, brought
five hundred and ninety-two guests; July,
six hundred and twenty ; and August, with
most everyone out of town, only five hun-
dred and thirty-eight. There was, how-
ever, a better profit in August with its
fewer guests than in June or July, be-
cause I had systematized things.

Mrs, S. W. Neville.

St. Andrew's Tea Room

(CEN a’ tea room atop a
twenty-story skyscraper located right
in the heart of the city to pay off their
church debt—that What was done in
Birmingham, Alabama, by the ladies of
St. Andrew’s Episcopal Church.

The story of it goes back to 1915, when,
on Good Friday morning, a cyclone swept
the town. numbering among its disasters
the little frame building of the Church of

IS

St. Andrew’s. Amid the wreckage and dis-
the altar, and candelabra
stood intact, an insistent inspiration, as it
were, to rebuild. Nothing daunted, the
members then had a get-together meeting,
and a lot was purchased in another loca-
tion, Such material could be used
from the wrecked débris of the frame
building was removed to the new site to
help in the erection of a new parish house

aster, Cross,

as

A heavy debt was lifted from the shoulders of this church by the tea room described above

16

on the rear of the lot. Services were then
held in this little parish house until the
present brownstone church was built, the
completion of which left a large debt to
be paid off by its congregation.

To help pay off this debt, the ladies of
St. Andrew’s Guild decided to give a
series of luncheons. The Guild divided
itself into as many as four bands, about
ten women to each band, and a chairman
was elected for each band. A committee
was then appointed to obtain some place
in the business center of the city where
these midday lunches
could be served. Other
members were directed
to solicit the wholesale
grocers and packers for
donations with which to
make a start. <A hard-
ware firm in the center
of the business district
graciously rented them
space on the mezzanine
floor of their store for a
nominal sum, and as
only two servants were
to be employed, the
following plan and out-
line of work was inaug-
urated:

Each band alternated
in having charge of and
running the tea recom for
a period of one week.
At the beginning of the
weeks, it was the duty
of each chairman of her
band to telephone the
different ladies of the
Guild, as well as mem-
bers of the church, and
ask them to come down
on a certain day of the
week to assist the band

BEE B Itpstths
pane SHEE EGE F ify,

1 an GONE EEE E [Ppp
Pn WHEE GHEE (Tp

cut the butter and place on individual
plates, and also fill the glasses with water,
Someone had to carye the roasts and
meats, SO a member was asked to perform
this duty. As many as twelve ladies of
the Guild and members of the church, and
their friends, came down each day and
gave their services, some of whom waited
on the tables, while others helped with
the cooking and preparation of salads,
desserts, ete. Others took turns acting as
cashier.

This, of hard work and
much sacrifice on the
part of these church
women, for nearly all of
them were housewives,
and it necessitated leay-
ing their homes for one
day of each week to help
in establishing the tea
room. But this group
of faithful workers real-
ized that in amy success-
ful undertaking the will
power or state of mind
of the individual forms
the beginning of success,
and that little could be
accomplished in a_ big
way or of a permanent
nature without the
whole-souled spirit of
coOperation.

This was the embryo
St. Andrew’s Tea Room!

Under this wonderfu!
system of coOperation
and business acumen,
the tea room “made
good,”’ and soon deyel-
oped such a large and
growing patronage that
the first floor of a large
down-town building was

course, meant

in their work. To de- rented, and a real tea
cide which members room started on a com-
should help her, the mercial business basis.
chairman wrote the A license was obtained,
names of all the ladies more kitchen help em-
of the Guild on _ tiny ploved, and young ladies
slips of paper, These At the very top of this sky-scraper Were paid to serve in the
were placed in a hat, St, Andrew's Tea Room found its ining-room. Yet, with-
from which ten names first home al, a corps of these
were drawn at random. church women and en-

To one member of this group would thusiastic members of the Guild were

be assigned the preparation of the salads,
and she would be expected to come early
enough on her regular scheduled day to
make and arrange the salads in their
plates, ready for serving. Another mem-
ber would be asked to come and take
charge of the dessert table, from which
she served the different desserts. As ice
water and butter were other important
items to be served, another member had
charge of this task, it being her duty to

ates

faithfully on hand every single day, and
because of this touch of personal direc-
tion and management, which maintained
the tea room’s reputation for appetizing
food of first quality, quick service, and
popular prices, the patronage grew so
large that a second move was necessary.
It was then they moved into the top of
the twenty-seven-story skyscraper, on ac-
count of which location the tea room was
sometimes called the ‘“‘Tip-Top Inn” of the

South, ‘The pleasant quarters of the St.
Andrew’s Tea Room in this office building

are illustrated in the photograph at the
foot of page.

While only one meal is served a day,
that being luncheon, everything that the

market affords in season is presented on
the menu. Only the vegetables
and fruits, the best quality of butter, and
“whole milk” are used. And for the fifty-
cent lunch, which of broiled
steak, French-fried potatoes and hot
cuits, the T-bone
chased, for this
lunches of proved
they specialize.

In addition serving regular pa-
trons, who averaged anywhere from two
hundred and fifty to three hundred a
day, Thursdays of each week tables
are always reserved. at “St. Andrew’s’”’
for a party of about thirty, a local organi-
zation,

The tea room’s reputation is, moreover,
rapidly spreading beyond the confines of
its native town, a from Mis-
sissippi” having luncheon re-

freshest

consists

bis-
pur-
standard
which

steaks
the
popularity

best are

Is one ol

on

to its

on

“oentleman

come for

= Gaceraee

ré becd be
PE TETE 88

}
}
tik
'
14
r
}
,
j

——

i?) ~ py
/ Ley
Te

cently, lured by the wide-spread fame of
its butter-scotch pie!

women who have made St. An-
Tea Room possible have not only
paid off the mortgage on the Church of
St. Andrew’s, but have had a pipe organ
installed, which has been paid for,
and now they are looking forward to liqui-
dating the debt for their new church
rectory.

These

drew’s

also

May Teressa Holder.

Hprror’s Novre.—Since accepting this
story for publication, the author has writ-
ten that owing to the owners of the
skyscraper building objecting to the
crowded condition of the elevators during
the luncheon hours, St. Andrew’s has been
obliged to move again. Thus the very
popularity of the place might have proved
its undoing.

Fortunately, one of the oldest and best-
known hotels in Birmingham immediately
offered them space in its building, where
they are now located, and conducting their
tea room, to quote their own words, “‘with

us

as much success as ever.”

WN;

OU never would guess that this atiractive garden spot, gay with greenery and lattice-work,

is really some twenty-five stories high in the air alop the building pictured on page 17.
Here the ladies of St. Andrew's dispensed cheer and tea until the overcrowded elevators in
the building caused them to seek new quarters more accessible to their persistent and _ not-
lo-be-discouraged patrons, who were all so obligingly helping to fill the church treasury.

L3

E — appropri-

ated the ers!-

while barroom of a

Revolutionary — inn,

teeming with histor-

ical memories of
Lafayelle’s visil

ig was dusty and

dingy from lack
of use and care,
but a month's pa-
lient and energetic
work transformed it
info what you see

The Bottle Hill Tea Shop

Which Helped Raise a Fund for Wellesley

ELLESLEY needed money! Madi-

V \ son needed a Tea Room! <A group
of Wellesley women put the two needs
together and spelled success, The Bottle
Till Tea Shop, so named because Madison
(New Jersey) was originally calied Bottle

was painted gray and spattered with
black, as in old times the housewife dec-
orated the kitchen floors, One old door,
which opened on the street, was taken
out and replaced with a long glass win-
dow. Fitted with glass shelves and filled

Ifill, flourished from the beginning, for with all sorts of quaint old bottles and
various and sundry reasons, and not a glass of many colors, this window served
little to do with its success were the two purposes—it lent decorative color and
sundries, themselves. originality and it at-
Fortunately, the first ; tracted the glance of the
problem, that of the sit- ATTENTION! passer-by, an inexpen-
uation, was easily solved. ; Sive bit of advertising.
Directly in the center of [= you are planning to at- It also became our
the town there was va- tract motor tourists to trademark,
cant the erstwhile bar- your tea room, be sure to The room was then
room of a Revolutionary provide parking space for ready for its furnish-

inn, a landmark for their cars,
miles about and teeming

with historical memories

and,
serve not only afternoon
tea but also regular meals,

if you ings, furnishings of the
early American perioa,

so it was decided.

of Lafavette’s visit in you should arrange for Quaint old hooked rugs
1825. These women quarters for their chauf- adorned the floor. On
seized upon this room, feurs. The Bottle Hili one side of the fireplace
dusty and dingy from Tea Shop is fortunate in at the end of the room
lack of use and care, being situated on a wide stood a comfortable
with its walls and ceil- road where cars can be wing chair, and on the
ings of corrugated tin parked at the curb. Some other side an antique
and jts bare board floors, locations, however, would sofa—delightful places
and in a month’s time demand special planning. to rest while waiting -for

transformed it.

The removal of the big
barroom ice box disclosed a treasure, an
old fireplace. Our visions of a glowing
fire on old andirons drawing customers on
a rainy day faded, however, when we
found out that it would cost nearly three
hundred dollars to put the chimney in a
safe condition. - But a eollege woman
never gives up. A really old open Frank-
lin stove, thirty dollars worth of stove
pide and labor, and the vision of glowing
fire became a reality.

The walls were covered with a compo-
sition board, paneled very simply and
painted a soft cream color, and the floor

19

a vacant table. A cor-
ner cupboard filled with
interesting bits of china and old pewter
lent charm to the room, while along the
sides stood o!d chests of drawers, a desk,
and lowboys,

“On the walls were hung guaint old
prints, mirrors, and a few beautiful
water-colors. The ceiling lights and the
side lamps were concealed by close-fitting
shades covered with orange sateen, veiled
with thin white silk and bound with blue
braid—the keynote of colors for the
room.

Now I am about to let you into a tre-
mendous secret! The rugs, the pictures,

& o
antiques tea gifts |

and all the old furniture were procured
from dealers to be sold on commission.
Hence, our furnishings, instead of costing
us money, actually made money for us.
As fast as one article was sold, it was
replaced with another from the same
source, The only furniture which we pur-
chased were common kitchen chairs and
tables. Painted Wellesley blue and var-
nished, these fitted in surprisingly well
with the old furnishings.

They Started With the Children

UT the attractive room was only a be-

ginning. People go to a tea room to eat.
One end of the room had been partitioned
off for a kitchen and furnished. with the
usual accessories plus an ice-cream cabi-
net. A colored cook was engaged and
established in the kitchen, and she could
cook, inspired as she was by the women,
who left no thought unthought on the sub-
ject of attractive service and novel dishes.
The first three days before the actual
opening were given over to the making
of ice cream and the serving of ice-cream
cones.

The children were enticed to buy
by the addition of a few candies to the
top of each cone, and the kitchen door
was soon surrounded by eager customers.
Surprising what a source of revenue ice-

cream cones are! Soon lollypops were
put on sale—hbig butterscotch ones—and

for several months the rent was paid by
the profit on these delicious candies, Not
only did the children buy them, but the

grown-ups took them home. Scorn- not
the pennies!
No effort was spared to have un-

usual food. Was the toast served in or-

A conventionalized

sketch of the
display window,
with some of the
fempling wares of
the Bottle Hill Tea
Shop on its shelves,
makes a distinctive
little mailing card

dinary slices? No! The bread was cut
in strips three inches long, one inch wide
and inch thick, Each strip was
toasted on all four sides, rolled in melted
butter for plain toast, and then in cinna-
mon and sugar for cinnamon toast. Three
strips to an order.

People came for miles about for ‘Toast,
Pot Cheese, and Jam, 60 cts.” Monday
was Chicken Shortcake Day. Tuesday—
Gingerbread. Wednesday—Waflle Day.
Thursday—Hot Scotch Scones. Friday—
Hot Biscuit with Honey. Saturday—
Mushroom Sandwiches. Did you eyer
taste them? Hvery day was Wellesley
Fudge Cake Day. We made a special
point of never saying no to a request.
What people wanted they got.

And, by the way, finding out what peo-
ple want is not always as easy as it
sounds. They will not always tell you,
and here your powers of observation must
be taxed to the utmost.

Only the Choicest Gifts

A®’ for gifts, no ordinary gift was al-
lowed in the drawers of our lowboys.
on the tops of our chest of drawers, or in
our cupboards. Java brass, elephant
bells; quaint Italian linens: and old pot-
tery were among the choicest. We orig-
inated many gifts such as wrought iron
candlesticks, made from our own design.

In the service an old Spanish pot-
tery was used. Frequently the customer
ate her muffins and bought the plate;
drank her tea, and ordered a tea _ set.
The napkins—dainty squares of Japanese
crépe with hand-rolled edges done in
Wellesley blue, and a tiny tassel at each
corner—became a fad, and to date over

one

one hundred dozen have been ordered and
sold, and never an order solicited. Eyvery-
thing which the tea room had to offer
was for sale, except the cook, and to her
we clung like leeches.

It Grew and Grew

OLUNTEER waitresses. in

smocks furnished efficient and intelli-
gent service. All the schoolgirls vied with
each other in their desire to serve.

At first, we served afternoon tea only,
later a simple luncheon to the _ school
children and teachers. How they enjoyed
the croutons made from the sandwich
crusts! An order of soup brought with
it all the croutons the young customer
could consume; hence our afternoon tea
guests’ dainty appetites for crustless
sandwiches furnished calories for the
school] children.

A little later we were forced to add a
hearty luncheon for the business men of
the town; and the motorist also sought
us out. In fact, nowadays there is always
a goodly line of cars parked out in front
of the Bottle Hill Tea Shop.

This winter we are planning to add an-
other cook to the establishment and serve
dinners and Sunday-night suppers.

blue

The furnishings were all for sale, and instead of costing money, they

Our experience illustrates the wisdom
of beginning in a small way. We started
with a building (of which the most that
could be said was that its situation was
advantageous), a half-recognized want on
the part of the community itself, and the
most unbounded enthusiasm on the part
of the workers.

We believed in anticipating the public’s
wants and filling them—both the wants
and the public.

I should advise anyone who contem-
plates a similar venture to start just as
modestly. So long as there is room for
expansion, there is plenty of time.

How did we finance it? We borrowed
money from men who were enough
interested in Wellesley to loan their
money without interest. Between you and
me they never expected to see their money
again; but they did.

And It Paid

iE two months we were out of

owned our equipment, worth approxi-
mately $2,000. In June we gave to
Wellesley $1,000 and pledged $6,000 more.
Wellesley’s need deserved success; Madi-
son’s need earned success.

Ethel S. Decker.

debt and

Sa a
dike 6

/

2

Li

actually made money

for the tea shop

21

This simple and impressive building used to be occu-
flourishing

when thal sect was

pied by Shakers,

It is one hun-

dred Years old

Shakertown Inn

HE tea house which I bave been con-
ducting for four years is located in
one of three family dwellings erected by
the Shakers about one hundred years ago.
Kach “family” consisted of one hundred
brethren and sisters, and the simple, spa-
cious rooms they occupied afford attract-
ive lodging for automobile parties,

The Shakertown Inn is breathing new
life into the decadent settlement. At rush
periods it furnishes occupation both for
idle hands and for idle rooms throughout
the village.

It was a natural gravitation which
brought me to Shakertown as a tea-house
site, from my native community, ten miles

oe

away. For that matter, it was an equally
stern force that got me into this as an
occupation. A few years after my hus-

band’s death, I found myself with a small
farm and three children of high-school
For farming I had no inclination or
Bunt the point had been reached
when some business had to be undertaken,

age.

genius.

for I valued education for my children.
The family homestead was a short dis-
tance from a well-traveled turnpike. One

spring day, I decided to start a tea house,
The “shingle’ I hung out was a_ huge,
rough-sawed outline of a teapot. I painted
it and swung it over the pike, pointing
up the lane to the house.

After four days of prayerful anticipa-
tion, my first guests arrived. They were
a party of five from Chicago. I gave

them beaten biscuit, country ham, apple
pie, and iced tea, and charged them fifty
cents each. Information about the place
spread, and many guests came from near-
by towns. Occasionally parties would ar-
rive from Cincinnati or Louisville, nearly
one hundred miles distant. I began to
think my future assured. In October,
however, the building burned. Of the fur-
niture and other equipment, meager as it
had been, only seven silver spoons and a
few knives were saved.

I was not disposed at first to try an-
other such venture. The following win-
ter, however, on my annual visit to Flor-
ida, the temptation returned, and I tried
operating a small tourist hotel. A feeling
for the business grew upon me, and I
came back to Kentucky resolved to start
another tea house near the site of the
first one, that had ended in flames. Then
I thought of the possibilities of Shaker-
town. The old sign with which I began,
“Hotel and Tea Room,” has been weath-
ered-out in the three years that have in-

tervened. ‘“Shakertown Inn” now tells
the public they may secure not only
meals but also lodging—the latter being

a desirable feature for a tea house in the
open country, The name suggests, at the

same time, the antique distinction to
which the place aspires.
Better highways have brought great

Too. we have been
Last

numbers to our doors,
“advertised by our loving friends.”

year more than seventeen thousand per-
sons registered. The state federation of
women’s clubs recently held its closing
meeting at Shakertown Inn; and commer-
cial clubs of nearby towns visit us every
season, with designs on ham and wafiles.
When touring is less in vogue, in early
spring and late fall, or on the quieter
middle-of-the-week days during summer,
many dinner parties are arranged at the
inn by Lexington groups, but there is no
dancing. A piano is the only musical in-
strument we have, and on it is kept a
volume of Kentucky folk-songs,
as a suggestion of what is ap-

preciated. Two weddings have
taken place at the inn, and

another is in prospect.

The main question on the
minds of all visitors—and we
recognize it—is food, We
Serve it liberally, at any time

Last year was notable in the history
of the inn for the launching of the Shaker
Shop. It is NoT a souvenir counter, One
of the strongest traditions of central Ken-
tucky is the memory of painstaking hand-
industry among the Shakers. In _ the
Shaker Shop we aim to keep alive this
stimulating heritage and to make it the
guide of handworkers throughout this re-
gion. In the neighborhood, also, and back
in the mountains, one may find the most
attractive basketry, quilting, loom work
and pottery. Se we cleared the rubbish
from a dilapidated broom shop
of the Shakers and painted
over the door, “Shaker Shop.”
We retained a sign which a
poor - spelling Shaker had
painted on a pillar inside:

No Loafing Allowed in Heare
If You Please.

of day for which request is If So No Fussing.
made in advance. Broiled or 1879

fried chicken, hickory-smoked ———————————

country ham, honey, wafiles, Sen Pom wee To an original consignment
beaten biscuit, cornbread sticks, of its kind’ x ry of “Fireside Industries” work
hot rolls, vegetables, fruit sal- from Berea, Kentucky, have
ads, and home-made _ ices, e been added bedspreads of in-
creams and cakes, are our SHAKERTOWN INN tricate patterns known in the
“headliners,” as the newspaper Agar eae mountain country, appliqué
men would say, Nor is the partis work, rag rugs, baskets, vases,
atmosphere for this ‘“‘sym- and other articles made in the

phony” overlooked. One room,
suitable for large parties, is
known as the “Cupboard Tea
Room,” because of the well-
preserved Shaker corner cup-

the

shop,
with the Inn, where
are sold all sorts of
handicraft
made by the people

This paster is used in

Ghaented neighborhood. Wall = candle-
: stick holders fashioned after
the peculiar Shaker design

have been put on sale, and it is

articles : a
our plan thus to revive various

board it contains. Another, hi : other patterns of Shaker fur-
the original Shaker dining- of this community. niture. A few antiques have
room, has been reconstructed been brought in for selling
on the model of the early days. Three throngh the shop, Articles are sold at a
other rooms have been developed in simi- small commission. In two months the

lar ways. There are always old-fashioned
flowers on the tables, and the waitresses
dress in white.

The “IL” with which this account began
has become ‘we’; for as Shakertown Inn
has developed, it has become more and
more the common enterprise of many
workers. Some of us wash dishes, while
others are ‘ton the door’: but all are sub-
ject to draft for any kind of work, and
sometimes we discover guests assisting, in
arush, My part, aside from management
of the inn, is to see that every plate is
properly and sufficiently laden, and when
the last guest has been served to aid with
the weary hour of clearing away, prepara-
tory to the next meal. Once upon a
time, a negro maid joined the Shakers.
They had a sense for the dignity of one’s
ealling. They elected her Kitchen Dea-
coness, and in that capacity she spent her
days happily. We are all, on occasion,
kitchen deaconesses, at Shakeriown Inn,
and we find the public likes it.

idea had proved its popularity, some peo-
ple coming to the inn with the sole pur-
pose of visiting the Shaker Shop.

An indispensable element in our suc-
cess, IT am sure, has been the devotion
that was born of necessity. To succeed

means, in the first place, to build a de-
sirable patronage and to make sure of its
continuing. Secondly, it means to make
a profit. The first of these objectives is
the more difficult to attain. To reach it
may require—has required at Shakertown
Inn—sacrificing profits somewhat.

Seant equipment is sufficient, in start-
ing a tea house. One’s investment is
mainly in food and service, and the turn-

over is rapid, (My initial investment
was less than five hundred dollars.) The
stream of traffic is easy to tap. People

with automobiles will travel, and travelers
must eat. The opportunity would be simi-
lar, I think, for the tea house which
eaters to the public that moves afoot.
Nannie J, Embry.

shade of the elms

Prudence Seymour Tea Room

HIS is the story of how the Prudence
It
is a plain, unvarnished tale of hard work
and perseverance; but if the telling will
help or encourage other women who may
desire to start along similar lines, we are
happy to give our experience which has
been to us both work and play.

One year, just Christmas, my
mother and I opened a small shop in the
parlor our home, in which we
handwork we had made during the sum-
mer. Though our shop was unpretentious
we had made a start. and this, perhaps,

Seymour Tea Room was started.

before

of sold

is the most difficult part for women un-
trained in business.

As spring approached, we grew ambi-
tious to take our shop to a summer re-

We finally heard of a tea room lo-
a beautiful Jake in the Litehfield
Hills, in Connecticut.

The proprietor wished to be relieved of

sort.

eated on

it for a time; and would rent at a mod-
erate figure. The gift shop alone was
our pet idea; but this tea room was, as
it were, thrust upon us, so we accepted it,

and ever since we have found the two an
excellent combination.

We Went House Hunting

ETER two summers the proprietor
of this tea room was ready to return
to it, and once more we went house-hunt-
ing. We had learned to love the Litchfield
Hills and wished to make our home ‘among
them. What we wanted was an old-fash-
ioned, homey place on the state road, and
it must be inexpensive, After examining
every available old house along the high-
way, we found just what we were looking

A

for, though some skeptical souls might not
have recognized it at first glance.

A Remarkable Old Building

ERHAPS we viewed it with far-see-
ing eyes of faith—we certainly had
more courage than some of our advisers,
for to one who could not see its possibili-
it was a ramshackle old building,
without a vestige of paint, the window
broken, and the shutters hanging
by one hinge or missing altogether. The
condition the interior was even more
discouraging. But we knew that it could
cleaned and repaired, and, happily, it
had not been ruined by modernizing im-
provements.
We dared not show our enthusiasm be-

ties,
glass
of

be

fore the old man who was taking us
through the house, so we whispered to

each other as we found opportunity, “Just
look at that stone fireplace with crane
and trammels, and a_bake-oven, too!”
“See those broad timbers across the ceil-
ing, the little cupboards over the
mantel! Later we discovered a little
river with swaying footbridge and great
elms arching over, not twenty feet from
the back door. So we paid down the bulk
our summer’s earnings, gave a mort-
eage for the balance, and returned to
town for the winter, poor in pocket, but
rich in and filled with en-
thusiasm.

The next step was giving the tea room
a snitable name. So many animals and
birds are employed as signboard symbols
that we sought in vain for a suitable one
not already in use. We even went to the
zoo to consider the subject, and still could

and

ss

of

possession,

not decide, So back we turned to our
controlling idea. We wanted to make the
tea room old-fashioned, placing there the
remaining relics of our own Colonial an-
cestors. So Mother suggested, ‘““Why not
use the name of our great-great-grand-
mother, Prudence Seymour, as our pat-
ron? She was the daughter of one of the
founders of Connecticut.”

Prudence Has a Finger in the Pie

a RADITION tells us she was a woman

of refinement and education beyond
her time, and so perhaps she would ap-
prove of our tea room; besides, we have
her Lowestoft.”’ So Pru-
dence Seymour’s name is
on our signboard, and we
doubt not that her influ-
ence inspires us.

S

sents any possibilities in

TUDY your locality,
to see whether it pre-

of sandwiches, salads, and cinnamon toast
was not sufficiently filling for hungry
tourists, so we added a chicken dinner with
half a broiler as a piéce de résistance. We
still serve sandwiches on order, but the
regular meals, with good substantial help-
ings are most called for. Afternoon tea,
with its dainty sandwiches, cookies, and
toast, and jam and pot cheese, affords a
pleasant snack to break a long journey ;
or sometimes it is the objective of an
afternoon drive when one is entertaining
friends. :

To such visitors our antique furniture,
the old fireplace with its cooking utensils,
the spinning wheels and the loom, as well
as the old bead bags and
ancient bonnets in the
corner cupboards, are ob-
jects of interest.

Our waitresses wear a

Restoring this old house the way of history and blue and white cotton
and furnishing it in early atmosphere which can dress, with white kerchief
American style has been be turned to account. As and apron, and _ white
a continual delight to Us, in this instance, with shoes and stockings. This
counterbalancing much Prudence Seymour, the costume harmonizes with

’

hard

work, for we have Colonial maid, perhaps | the style and coloring of

+77) © ar . Z . . a ¢ ine
scrubbed and papered and there is some quaint old our rooms. In _ passing,
painted with our own character of the past let me say that, although
joe : associated with your own | °€ might be tempted to
South o the tea room, village or the house it- think otherwise, when so
obstructing our view, self If so. use him much money is needed for
: : é i ad : : : natured help is important.

5 uainted with his story, ee lay:
been a church, later a d y We do not think it ad-

schoolhouse, then a dance
hall, and finally a barn in
which to dry tobacco, To
us it was an eyesore. In our second year
at the Prudence Seymour we bought it,
and then the question was how to re-
move it from our sight. Our architect
husband said that the oak frame and the
roof were in good shape, adding, ‘Why
not move it to the north end of the tea
room? We need an addition.” And that
is the way we spent the money we earned
the next year. It has become a saying
with us when we crave some new extray-
agance, “If Prudence can earn it, she
can have it.”

Where the barn stood we have now an
old-fashioned garden, which produces veg-

etables and flowers. In the spring we
buy day-old chicks, white Wvandottes,

and raise them for broilers, which are in
constant demand.

Thus, in every way we can, we live like
our forefathers, producing what we use,
earning before we spend,

The alteration and repairs we had made
were paid month by month as they were
finished, and last year we paid off the
mortgage, so that now the place is every
bit our own.

Soon after we were established on the
state road we discovered that our menu

let him do some free ad-
vertising for you.

visable to employ friends
who glow with enthusiasm
about running a tea room,
unless they are partners sharing the
losses as well as the profits. For busi-
ness must be steady and continuous to
make it pay, and this means long hours
and hard work.

Efficient, attractive help, who are ade-
quately paid, and to whom you may make
suggestions without embarrassment, are best.

In our business venture we have had
no financial backer. We have earned our
tea room little by little. As our capital
was small, we have had to turn it over
and over again,

After Five Years

OW, after five vears of experience,

we can say that running a tea room
requires ability, capital, courage and pet-
severance—yes, more—it requires imagin-
ation—the power to visualize what you
desire to create.

If you really possess all these qualifica-
tions, or ean develop them, we-say to
you; “Go ahead and try; there is a lot
of fun as well as hard work in it and if
you are not afraid of the latter, you can
succeed.”

Mary T. Parfitt.

“The North Wind doth blow’—but Robin Redbreast still perches aloft, inviting you to tea

Ye Ragged Robin Tea Shop

TT°HE tourist of to-day, who rushes
through the country at top speed, is
not looking for a big hotel where he may
leisurely eat a course dinner, but for some
quiet spot along the highway where he
may be quickly served with delicious vege-
tables fresh from the garden, cool salads,
iced drinks tinkling in tall, thin glasses,
or the varieties of dainty sandwiches
which the wayside tea house affords.
Seven years ago, with almost no capi-
tal, absolutely no experience, and very
little encouragement from my friends, I
opened a little tea room on the road to
the White Mountains in New Hampshire,

and called it “Ye Ragged Robin Tea
Shop.”
The one-story house had only four

rooms, but it was over a hundred years
old, quaint, and in good condition. Paint
and paper did wonders to the interior.

In the north room, which I planned to
use for my tea room, I put white curtains
with blue and white checked gingham
overhangings at the windows, and the
high, straight-backed chairs, as old as the

house, were cushioned in the same ma-
terial. (See page 27.) Blue and white

rag rugs were used on the painted floor.
On one side of the room was ‘a cup-
hoard, in which I placed my _ dishes.
Modern they were, but of a pattern re-
minding one of the posy-decked china of
our grandmothers. Gradually I have
added to my store, and often my guests

exclaim at the ‘‘old-fashioned” ware they
see through the door,

Next the cupboard is a tiny fireplace,
on whose long mantel are candlesticks
reminiscent of Colonial days. An _ old-
fashioned mirror by the entrance door is
favored by ladies who may wish to adjust
hat er veil on leaving.

As the room was tiny and the seating
capacity limited, I decided to put tables
outside under the maples in front of the
house, where, on hot days, the dusty
traveler can enjoy the view of hill and
lake and the glimpse of gardens through
the trees.

I have learned by experience, through
traveling about the country during the
winter months, that the most pretentious
meal may be spoiled by unpleasant sur-
roundings, and the simplest lunch seem a
feast, when served daintily on pretty
china, with spotless linen, sparkling glass,
and the added brightness of fresh flowers.

The kitchen is, of course, the most im-
portant part of the ménage, Mine is
small, but doors and windows keep it cool
and well lighted. As coal and gas are not
available, the cooking is done on a big
wood-burning range and a kerosene stove.
My dishes are all cooked to order, and the
wood makes a quick and very hot fire at
the time when it is most needed.

We depend wholly on tourists, and the
number can never even be guessed at.
They arrive at all hours, and expect one

to be prepared to serve them at a mo-
ment’s notice. I am glad to say we have
never disappointed them.

Business men, hurrying back from week-
end visits on Monday mornings, are glad
to stop for crisp bacon and eggs, and a
pot of steaming coffee, or one of those
deliciously browned omelets which have
helped to make our place popular with
them, Tea rooms will always appeal to
women, but a wafer-like sandwich and a
pot of tea will never satisfy our mascu-
line friends, To win over the men you
must provide something more substantial.
One of our specialties is good coffee. We
make it fresh for every guest, buying the
whole bean and grinding it as it is used.

Served with thick cream, it is an ever-
satisfying accompaniment to breakfast,

and a fitting climax to any lunch.

The question of help has always been a
serious ope with me. I believe it is essen-
tial that the girls who serve should not
only know how to piace the dishes cor-
rectly on the table, but that they should
also possess a pleasing personality, making
the guests feel at home.

in summer, you find

the delicious shade

I always supervise the work in the
kitchen, so that everything which is served
will be up to the standard,

We have tried to make our little place
attractive on the outside as well, by plant-
ing masses of flowers; and among these,
of course, are ragged robins, Every year
the garden blooms in profusion from early
spring until after the frosts.

As the demand is also growing for
quarters where tourists may spend the
night, we have decided to build screened
sleeping porches for use this year.

Our advertising consists of our road
signs, with the little red robin on them,
post cards of the house, and our space in
the A. L. A. Green Book. But the best
advertisement of all is good food, quick
service, and home atmosphere.

As you leave our little tea room, you
will see in the guest book the names of
friends from all over this country and the
old world; and if you ever come to see
us. we hope you will agree with the Eng-
glish gentleman who wrote after his name:

“A delightful place to stop for lunch.”

Elsye Wallace Osterman.

sugar maples

a oe Mae

And inside is the clean, cool simplicily of a blue and while dining room

nw
~]

Blue jars filled
with yellow flowers
are placed on the tables

The old mangers
are massed with the
hloom of tawny marigolds

The Yellow Hen

HIE family always said that the well-

built barn in the rear of the yard
ought to be made over into something

profitable. And when the women of the
family decided to enter into a business of
some kind, a tea house and the barn nat-
urally dovetailed. Once the idea was
under way, it was no time before a car-
penter gaye estimates on remodeling, from
plans drawn up by an architect; and in
a remarkably short time the tea house
known by the picturesque and com-
fortable name of The Yellow Hen opened
for business in Plainfield, New Jersey.
Remodeling included laying a hardwood
floor for the main barn space, twenty-nine

feet by thirty feet, the walis of which
were sealed with yellow pine when the
building was constructed. A group of
casement windows took up the = space
formerly occupied by wide barn doors.
Box stalls became kitchen, pantry and
storeroom. An excellent second-hand

gas range, with fireless cooker attachment,
proved to be a find from a utilitarian as
well as from a financial viewpoint. The
sum of fifteen hundred dollars was ex-
pended on remodeling and lighting, which
covered the installation of drop electric
lights at intervals from the ceiling, and
side fixtures into regular barn. lan-
terns.

All lights were subdued by yellow
figured crépe paper shades, in dressy and
effective style.

set

Fifteen round plain tables with two
long ones, and forty-eight inexpensive,

solid wooden chairs took on unique airs
under a coat of yellow paint trimmed with
cobalt blue. (See photograph in oval.)
Painting was done by members of the fam-
ily and helped to make a rainy day or two
pass quickly. Yellow and blue became the
color scheme adhered to in pottery, flow-
ers, menu cards, announcements, and sim-

ilar details. Yellow and blue gingham
overdrapes dressed up all the windows.
Black oilcloth cut into squares and

stitched with yellow settled the doily ques-
tion. As the tea room was to include a
gift side to the venture, yellow paper and
blue string lent distinction to purchases.

It was decided to use good china and to
place it on sale. Cantigalli, a picturesque
and somewhat crude pottery made by peas-
ants of Italy, on which the potter’s mark

,

is a “hen,” was chosen, besides some
3rittany ware, some Spanish, and Italian
pottery called Deruta, all of which

worked in well together. If one liked the
Brittany bowl in which most delectable
Yellow Hen ice cream was served, or the
Cantigalli bowl, containing sugar, these
pieces could be had at a price under that
usually asked for these wares at retail
shops.

The initial stock required an outlay of
three hundred dollars at the start. It was
figured that inexpensive articles costing,
at wholesale, twenty-five cents to fifty

cents could be sold

tailed at five dollars
instead of six dollars.

This peasant ware
sold so fast that it
soon became  neces-

sary to sell on order
instead of from the
tea-house stock.
Again, on the food
question, it was
found that if forty
or fifty persons were
served in a day, the
cost of service
dropped down to five
cents for each person,
and the profit was
perceptible. But on a

at one hundred per
cent profit, but an article at three dollars
wholesale could be disposed of more profit-
ably, because in greater quantity, when re-

“Cluck!” says the hen and the chicks cry

day
guests partook of a chicken dinner at one
dollar and fifty cents, the percentage of
service rose to about thirty cents a plate,
and there was a decided drop in profits.

1921,

“Tea!

when few

and

The Yellow Hen opened on May 25th,

serving
o’clock in the morning to eight o’eclock in
the evening, and up to the first of the fol-
lowing September,

with

afternoon tea,
coffee,

hours from eleven

twenty-five hundred
persons had _ been
served, one thousand
being credited to the
first month, which
Was an exceptionally
good record, as tea
houses in this section
go, as patronage falls
off disastrously in
New Jersey during
July and August.

It was made a rule
that special cooked
luncheons or dinners
could be served if
two hours’ notice was
given, otherwise sim-

ple luncheons with salads, and the usual
chicken dinner would be on order. For
hot or iced chocolate, tea
sandwiches,
cake and ice cream were ready for all,

cinnamon toast,

Helen Harrison.

Tumble-Down Tea House

MOST attractive and successful tea
house, situated on the highway lead-
ing north from Washington, D. C., was
opened last season by an energetic Mary-
Mary

land woman, Miss

Seeing possibilities in
the stream of motorists
which daily traversed this
popular highway, Miss
Stabler set about finding
a place which she could
utilize for her purpose.

Almost in despair of
finding anything suitable,
she was looking over the
ground one day, for at
least the hundredth time,
when her eyes fell upon
an old deserted house by
the roadside, little more
than a stone’s throw from
town.

Without a moment’s
hesitation she walked over
to it and began ‘taking
stock.” She felt sure that
she could rent it for a
moderate sum, as it had

been vacant for a _ long
time, the owner having

pulled down a part of it with the intention
of repairing, which he had never done. It
presented a most dilapidated appearance,
but her quick eye took in an old fireplace,
weatherbeaten but still intact, where the

M. Stabler.

tye

Very properly, this

29

tea house
has a lumble-down sign

once

room had been torn down, and on either
side of it remnants of the old wall.
“That’s something to start on,” she ex-
claimed excitedly.
rent this old tumble-down house before my

“Tl go right away and

courage fails.”

“You wouldn’t believe,”
she said, telling about it
later, “the quantity of rub-
bish I had carted away.
Sixty-one baskets of lime
and three cartloads of
laths from that old foun-
dation alone, to say noth-
ing of every other kind of
trash. Then I filled it all
in with good rich earth
and sowed grass seed—
and look at it now!”

As she spoke, Miss
Stabler waved her hand
over the rich green grass
beneath her

feet, now
beautiful in the evening
sunlight. Beside us was

the old fireplace, half hid-
den by luxurious vines,
and with bright bits of
pottery on the ledge above
that had once been a man-

tel piece, while on the remnant of the foun-
dation wall still standing were quaint old
stone jars and pitchers,

“It must have cost you a lot,” we re-
marked, at

curious and interested.

“Of course it did,’ she said, “but you
can‘t reap if you don’t sow.
hundred dollars in it; but

getting that back, and
soon the profit will come.
Come inside,” and opening
the screen door she ush-
ered us into a charming
little room, filled almost
to overflowing with beau-
tiful pieces of antique fur-
niture that she had col-
lected here and there—-
tables, chairs, a beautiful
old desk, old mirrors, and
a variety of brass and sil-
ver curios decorating the
mantel piece. Over the
windows artistic drapery
in dull pinks and blues
gave a touch of color, re-
peated in the big jars of
wild flowers placed about
the room.

The screened porch,
which extends across the
front of the house and is
shaded by luxuriant vines,

was fitted out with little tables, each with
a vase of fresh wild flowers to delight the

awit) aks

HE charm of an old abandoned mil!
and its picturesque setting presented
manifold possibilities when the venture of

opening our tea room was
finally made a possibility.

The location, too (Pratt’s
Junction, Massachusetts ),
was in its favor, for the
state road between Wor-
cester, Leominster and
Fitchburg—which during
the summer months is the
highway for White Moun-
tain and Berkshire tour-
ists—is a few hundred
feet away.

Plenty of parking space
for automobiles—a feature
that appeals strongly to
motorists — was arranged
in a part of a field in
front of the mill.

It was a matter of but
a few weeks when broad
low porches on three sides
of the building, a huge
fieldstone fireplace built in
the center of the main
room, a hard-wood floor-

ing, and the part apportioned off for the

kitchen, were completed.

The furnishings were inspired by the old

already I am

I put three

The old fireplace had become a

really decorative feature

weathered

eee oe ee ~ Se » a

With two such noble trees on
the grounds, a filling name was
nol far lo seek

appearance of
low beamed ceiling.
colored theatrical scrim at the small-paned

eye; and here with the help of a capable
servant, breakfasts and light lunches are
served whenever called for, and iced drinks

and ice cream, accom-
panied with delicious little
cookies, thin as a wafer,
can be had at all times.
The specialty of the
Tea House, however, is
chicken dinners, consist-
ing of one chicken served
to two persons, with lima
beans and sweet corn (or

any two vegetables. de-
sired), pickle, jelly, a
salad, either hot or iced

drinks, and ice cream.

To this little Tea House
people began to flock even-
ing after evening, espe-
cially at week-ends, until,
under this daily in¢reasing
popularity, Miss. Stabler
found it necessary to en-
large her quarters.

She finally succeeded in
purchasing a house a few
miles to the east, Here in

April, she opened her new “Tea House,”
and has ample room to serve all who come.

Coftee Mill

the walls and
Curtains of natural-

windows soften without
shutting out any of the
light. Tones of yellow
and orange predominate.
In contrast with the yel-
low chairs are the black
tables in various sizes ac-
commodating two to eight
or ten guests.

The screened-in porches
where the guests are
served (except on cold or
rainy days) leave the
large main room free for
social purposes—inviting
those who are not in a
hurry, to linger a while in
comfortable chairs by the
open fire,

Homemade breads and
cakes are always appre-
‘iated ; fowl used for salad
is cooked fresh every day
in the pressure cooker,
which is, by the way, a re-
markable time-saver. Ex-

tra steaks and chickens are kept in the

cooler for emergencies, and special service

30

for private parties is provided for.

ND just to prove that the

name was not picked al
random for no reason al all,
here is the mill-wheel itself,
turning to the tune of the water
and making music for you while
you eat or chat with friends

ERE, in the pleasant half-

light which is filtered
through the foliage of the sur-
rounding trees, you can enjoy
an ouldoor meal while you
walch the dim, cool stream
slipping along at your very feel

The Gingham Shop

66 HE Gingham Shop Will Open Here

November Fifteenth.” This notice

drew speculative comment from the fem-

inine portion of the eight thousand or

more college students who must pass the
place daily.

Idle speculation changed to active in-

vestigation when it appeared that this
was a new place where “eats” might he

obtained.

‘How did you ever do it?” I exclaimed
as I seated myself in the inner room of
the little. establishment for a Saturday
breakfast of crisp waffles with just the
suspicion of corn meal that I like, and
real maple sirup. For I remembered
this same place as an unsightly wedge be-
tween two respectable buildings, a Chinese
laundry made hideous by bill posters.

I was the latest of the breakfasters, so
the woman in charge felt at liberty to
satisfy my curiosity and interest, while

31

her daughter, a young college girl who
attended my classes, did the last of the
“clearing away.”

“Tt was no easy task,” she smiled.

“But it was cheap. Any other place
three blocks from a state university would
be out of the question for us, and the
location is everything.

“So we nailed up the front entrance,
secured a carpenter to repair roof and
floor, and hired a man to carry out the
coal and remoye the trash from the back
yard. Marian and I and our faithful
Dinah did most of the rest. Having
scrubbed so vigorously as to dispose of

every germ, we indulged in an orgy of
paint. We had paneled all but’ the
kitehen with light pine. This together

with the casings, wainscotings, doors, and
cubby hole, we painted black.

“In a little out-of-the-way shop we
found an old-fashioned table, with leaves

folded demurely at its sides. We prompt-
ly secured it for the ‘front room.’ The
kindly old dealer became interested in our
project, and dragged to light a quaint
round table with substantial legs. ‘I
have five more of these in the store room,’
he said. These with some chairs that had
the same substantial, stocky appearance,
were all we could use in our little second
room. We gave this furniture a couple
of coats of the black paint.

“Now we felt we must begin to brighten
things up a bit. We covered the floors
with a thick, wonderfully clean-looking
blue and white checked linoleum, and a
decorator put on this cheerful paper.
Then with this finely checked blue and
white gingham we curtained the windows,”
indicating the novel hangings held down
stifly and primly with rods.

“T exercised my own talent at carpen-
try in the construction of the shelves and
the blue Delft is an heirloom.

“With blue checked gingham side cur-
tains and valance we bordered the open-
ing to the old cellarway, and in it we
have the victrola, with a couple of dozen
of the very best records,

“With our simple kitchen in readiness
in the back, and an Old English sign—
in blue to match the gingham—on the
front door, we were ‘all set.’

“it was to be a specialty shop. And
our specialty was to be Dinah’s specialty
—waffles and toasted English muffins, We

Can you resist this tempting display of sweets from the Gingham Shop ?

open for breakfast on Saturday and Sun-

day mornings to accommodate the stu-
dents who have missed the call of Big
Ben. We serve tea every afternoon from
three until five. In the evening, it is

waffles and maple sirup again, with tiny
country sausages. One other item ap-
pears on each evening’s menu—a surprise.
To-night it is to be hot mince pie. In
the summer we shall divert all our ener-
gies to crisp salads and dainty sandwiches.

“We make a specialty, too, of little pri-
vate suppers and parties. Last week one
of the sororities gave a formal afternoon
tea, engaging the rooms and service for
the entire afternoon. Last night a dozen
jolly girls indulged in a rarebit supper.”

Marian, who made an adorable maid,
now hovered near to remove my plate.
She wore a wisp of a blue gingham apron
with a pert bow at the back. Another
blue gingham bow rested on her curls.

As I went out through the ‘front room,’
I exclaimed with delight over the table of
sweets that had just been replenished by
a home candy maker, whose services, I
was told, had been secured by the Ging-
ham Shop. There was a platter of fresh
fudge, piled high and eut in big squares.
A basket was filled with tempting divinity
balls. Most irresistible of all were the
maple sweethearts, “‘made from pure ma-
ple sugar from the famous Mohawk trail.”
ach piece of candy sold for twelve cents.

Lois Borland.

Neither could they!

- mt Y fe See: ee

$<he, ee

This story and a half dwelling was built in 1654, and is set on a slope at the top of a lane
which formerly was an Indian trail

Sunset Tea Room

66 ULL the string and the latch will

come up,” said a voice from within
the ancient, little grey house. Obey and
one finds not a wolf in grandmother’s
night cap, but a young woman beaming
welcome from under the quaint angle of
a soft, old-blue Dutch cap. Behind her
a massive stone chimney slants backward
towards the ceiling, as if to hide the an-
cient, narrow staircase of many angles,
worn shiny and hollow by footsteps that
have mounted it for two centuries and a
half.

Through a doorway at the right one
eatches sight of quaint, Dutch tables,
set with blue and white tea service, and
ornamented with field flowers in pewter
jugs. It is characteristic of the simple
atmosphere of Sunset Tea Room.

This story and a half dwelling was
built in 1654, according to records of the
Congregational Church, and is set on a
slope at the top of a lane which formerly
was an Indian trail. This path led up
from the river, and was used by Indians,
who arrived yearly in the clamming sea-
son, bringing wide-splint baskets, which
they traded for fruit and vegetables.

Tradition has it that the house was
built for slaves in 1654. (Many descend-
ants of early settlers in Connecticut re-
tained slaves up to the sixties.) They
were the property of a family of early
settlers, the foundation of whose home-
stead lies in ruins on the Booth family’s
estate near by. <A little stream flows be-
low the slave’s house and the delicious
water cress, which grows in it even to this

33

day, immediately became an important in-
gredient to the salads and sandwiches on
Sunset Tea Room’s menu.

The building had been vacant for a
year or more when two Connecticut young
women conceived the idea of a tea room
under this historic roof. The house has
an attic and two rooms separated by a
huge stone chimney with enormous fire-
places, while another large one is in the
cellar, which formerly was used as a
kitchen when slaves no longer occupied it,
and when, history relates, the house be-
came a tavern.

(Jueer looking tally marks, a series of
four, short, upright white lines, crossed
diagonally by another, still show across
the entire length of the heavy plank over
the opening of the fireplace. Some coun-
try folks say that these kept tally of the
number of hot toddies sent upstairs to
wayfarers, others differ as to the use to
which they were put.

Whatever its past may have been, the
two Connecticut young women have been
able to create a cheerful and restful at-
mosphere in this ancient setting. Rag
rugs, pewter plates, pewter jugs filled with
wild flowers, and antique china give color
to the room, and being in a neighborhood
where heirlooms are plentiful, were ob-
tained at little expense. Out under the
eaves at a corner of the house,. instead
of a dingy rain-water barrel, these re-
sourceful young women have set an enor-
mous brass kettle which reflects rays
from the setting sun, and flashes back
beckoning cheer to passing wayfarers.

Bluebird Tea Room

IVE years ago a friend came to visit

my wife, my two boys, and myself. I
was a broken-down individual unable to
hold a position for long and equally un-
able to afford the medical treatment which
would put me on my feet again. My wife
being strong and an excellent cook, about
the first suggestion our friend made was,
“Why don’t you start a tea room, some-
thing you both can work at together?”

Neither of us had any experience in
that line, and we laughed at the idea.
However, after considering the matter
from all points of view, we actually de-
cided to try it out. Our first move was
to draw out our bank balance, which to-
taled three hundred and eighty-four dollars

and twenty-nine cents. Our next move
was to spend it.
In a college town we rented a house

easily accessible to the students. We pur-
chased four tables with loose plate glass
tops. These we found rather expensive,
but they are sanitary and have paid for
themselves over and over again in laundry
saving. The glass tops can be easily
cleaned by wiping off with a small amount
of cleansing powder on a wet cloth, and
then polishing them with a dry cloth.
They can be made attractive by pasting a
gaily patterned cloth under the glass. In
our own case blue repp was used, as the
tables were placed in a large front room
which we had papered in plain blue and
curtained in rose.

Between this room and the kitchen was
the serving room, where we kept extra
dishes, silver, trays, etc., on a
large table. Off from this
room was a closet where we
placed an ice box and shelves
for canned goods. A _ large
gas stove with nine top burn-
ers and a double oven, two
heavy cabinets and a dish-
washing sink completed our
kitchen equipment.

Purchasing our food sup-
plies on credit from obliging
dealers, we hung out our
shingle and were ready for
business the day the college
fall term opened.

We had printed a regular

menu consisting of cold
meats, sandwiches, relishes,
beverages, etc., each item

priced separately; and then
each noon and evening we at-
tached to this a special type-
written slip from which our patrons could
select a regular meal if they so desired.

Our first day’s receipts amounted to

BiUE BIRD

EAR@mM

It's right on the shaded

street -of a college town.

eighty-five cents, leaving almost twenty
dollars worth of perishable food in the
ice box. Friend Wife is of Scotch descent
and plucky. Had she been otherwise I
should not be writing this. We kept the
place open although at a loss, she run-
ning the Tea Room and I working where
an honest dollar might be obtained.

Someone suggested that we specialize in
catering to party luncheons. We adver-
tised to that effect and it proved success-
ful—not financially so much as in the
free advertising we got from the people
who attended those parties.

We kept the Tea Room going as usual,
following the same principle as before, but
with the special parties we found our-
selves obliged to depend for extra help on
students who worked for their board—a
plan which proved exceedingly pleasant as
well as financially sound.

Toward the end of the year prospects
looked brighter and before the end of the
next we were employing regular kitchen
help beside five students who did the sery

ing. Thus we have continued, my wife
managing the help and supervising the

cooking, while I attend to the details and
lend a hand where most needed.

Many who run such a business con-
sider it their duty to see that patrons are
properly served in the dining room. We
have someone else do that. As we see it,
our place is ‘behind the scenes’ attend-
ing to what goes into the dining room.

We have found that the art of working
leftovers into tasty, wholesome dishes
yields us much of our profit.
Another practise which has
saved us a good deal is our
habit of taking into considera-
tion weather conditions and
planning ahead accordingly.

Criticism we have had—lots

of it! And we welcome it,
since it enables us to adjust
many unsatisfactory condi-
tions. Apparently our abil-

ity to take a hint kindly has
paid us, for during this last
year our patronage was more
than we could conveniently
handle with double the equip-
ment and three times as much
help. The business is still
small, but we feel that it is
quite a success, since we now
own our home and place of
business, are well insured,
owe no man a dollar, and are
in a position to expand to the extent of
three or four thousand dollars, should we
find it necessary. E. H. Porter.

The
Coffee House

ILE emblem at the left, which is
a symbol of one of the many good
things served within, hangs over the
doorway on one of the main streets
of the town, in the heart of the

business section.

NE of the first requisites for success

in the tea room business is a good
location. We were fortunate in securing
this in our city. Our Coffee House is
within one block of all our city’s leading
banks and close to the best ready-to-wear
shops. We calculated that to get the
patronage of the wives of the leading
business men of the city would be the
surest and quickest road to success; and
having secured their patronage we thought
the men would learn of our place from
their wives and friends. Then, finding
that we were located in the heart of the
city, near their offices, we hoped that they
would take their meals with us.

For the interior of our coffee house the
color scheme was green and ivory. Our
tables and chairs were all painted ivory
with green trimming and the woodwork
of the room was painted to match. We
secured china with green striping, and
our teapots, water pitchers and ice bowls
were all green. On each piece of linen is
appliquéd a green coffee pot; and the
aprons and caps with which we furnish
our waitresses bear the same design.

We took care to get the attention of
the people we wished to attract, and with
excellent results. We did this by means
of a folder which we had printed, with
our coffee pot conspicuous on the front.
Five hundred of these were mailed to the
prominent families of the city a day or
two before our opening. This was all the
publicity we had, and yet we could not
handle the crowd that came to us on our
opening day. For several days we turned
many away who had received our an-
nouncement folders, but gradually we
added tables and chairs and increased our
force until at this time we can seat
seventy-two people and have six waitresses
and a head waitress.

Perhaps the most popular feature of our
place is our coffee service, which we. em-
phasize above everything else. Every or-
der for coffee is served in individual ser-

i)

co

vice—a two cup stand with glass bowl,
which is brought to the table by the wait-
ress, and an alcohol lamp which keeps the
coffee hot until the patron is ready for it.
This feature has given our place a wider
publicity than an expensive series of news-
paper advertisements. If iced coffee is
ordered our service is equally effective,
for a glass of crushed ice is furnished
with the coffee which is poured over the
ice in the presence of the patron, so that
the ice is not half melted when the coffee
is poured in.

We know that the public generally is
fond of pastry and we therefor spare no
effort or expense to make ours the best
in this city. We conceived the idea of
having no great variety of pies each day,
but rather having a set day for certain
pies, with the result that our friends now
know the day of the week on which their
favorite pastry will be on the menu. This
feature serves another purpose which
might not have occurred to some people
operating a business of this sort. It con-
vinces the public, who might otherwise be
skeptical, that our pastry is always fresh,
as they do not find the same pastry served
on succeeding days.

Another feature of our coffee house is
the arrangement of the front of our shop.
The windows are draped with green, and
in this space is a settee for those who are
meeting friends, or who want to rest or
read while they wait for a table. Near
this settee we have a dressing stand and
mirror for the use of ladies. On the table
are pen and ink, and a rack behind this
table carries the leading magazines.

On every table we have had fresh cut
flowers every day since we started.

It is our aim to give to all our guests
the best of care and attention, as we real-
ize that the most effective bits of adver-
tising are the words of praise passed on
to those who do not know us.

Mrs. Smith and Mrs. Pierce,
Proprietors.

The Sign of the

Golden

HEN an opportunity of-

fered itself to start a
new venture, my mother, twin
sister, and I turned our thoughts
toward having a tea room and
gift shop, as something in which
we could all have a part. It was in Octo-
ber, 1916, that we started from Boston to
Miami, Florida, It was a new city to us,
where we had no friends or associations ;
but we had learned that the climate was
an ideal winter one, and that Miami was
the “growingest” city in the South.

The little stone house that we rented
had quite a tropical look, owing to the
Pandanus bushes and large cocoanut palm
trees in the front yard. After hanging
out our sign—a yellow orange with green
leaves — and placing
our four tables and
sixteen chairs on the
porch, we waited for
our guests. Our only

a a

Orange

green lacquered tray just large
enough to hold them. The crust-
less sandwiches are wrapped in
oiled paper sealed with an orange
disc bearing the words ‘The
Sign of the Golden Orange,
Miami, Florida.”

When the sugar bowls are freshly filled,
the iced tea and limeade ready to pour,
the sandwich fillings ready, and some
sandwiches made, the butter creamed and
the cinnamon mixture ready to spread on
the hot toast, the water “galloping boil-
ing’ on the stove and the teapots and
jugs warm in the oven—when these things
are done, we can relax a little and feel
that we are ready for the afternoon. We
serve six davs a week, leaving the seventh
day for a much need-
ed rest, although we
take orders for picnic
lunches for Sundays.

We have supplied

form of advertising an ever-growing de-
was to send out green mand for homemade
ecards engraved with cakes and sandwiches
the orange motif and to be taken away
leaves, announcing from the Tea Room;
our Tea Room and and for this branch
Gift Shop and say- - = a Bei 1 of the business we
ing that we were pre- In keeping with the semi-tropical almosphere have a _ supply of
pared to take orders of the place is the signboard attached to the folding boxes, oiled
for pienic lunches trunk of a cocoanut!-tree paper, and_ picnie
and cakes. Our sea- lunch accessories.

son was from December first to May first.

On a visit to “The Sign of the Golden
Orange,” one will find round green tables,
green chairs—the backs covered with
green and white awning material, with a
sateen orange and green felt leaves ap-
pliquéd on each chair back.

On every table you will find an orange

bow] filled with tiny Panama oranges
and their glossy green leaves. The

menu card is under glass, to insure per-
fect cleanliness, and a special menu, cut in
the shape of the orange with leaves, has
blank discs of paper on which are an-
nounced the kinds of ice cream offered
for the day. The green enamel call bell
is decorated with an orange design, and
an order pad with pencil attached allows
guests to write their own orders.

The tea service consists of a small green
earthenware teapot and hot water jug, a
small strainer, and a cube of tea. "This
insures the freshness of the tea, and al-
lows the guest to brew it the desired
strength. These articles are placed on a

36

Auction bridge is a most popular form
of entertainment at Miami, so that we
provided ourselves with tables and chairs,
and arrange bridge parties, The refresh-
ments for these parties are as simple or as
elaborate as a hostess wishes them to be.

The Gift Shop, which is a small affair,

has a display of hand-painted dinner
cards, tallies, favors, handkerchiefs and

small gifts, and orders are filled for fav-
ors and ecards in special color schemes.
In the shop we have a guest book, where
a mammy doll announces by ecard, “My
Missus asks youse-all to please register in
our guest book.”

How much help is needed to con-
duct this business? One colored maid for
the kitchen work, and during the busiest
season a friend, who is engaged for after-
noons to assist in various ways. These
two helpers and the three members of the
family (who do not observe union hours
from December to May) make up our
staff. Needless to say, tips are taboo.

Mary Hoit.

The Tintern Tea Garden

VV ASHINGTON’S old Naval Dis-
pensary has been turned into one

of its most attractive tea houses, The
smal! red brick building which was once
a medical compound is now known as The
Tintern Tea Garden. It is within easy
walking distance from the Treasury, the
White House and the War Department.
But while its location has proven a draw-
ing card for a cosmopolitan gathering, it
is not so much the location as the garden
in the rear which has attracted the
semblage of interesting guests and friends.
Throughout the sul-
try summer, in this
fragrant garden, three
meals a day are served,
at nominal prices.
There is breakfast ia
the cool of the morn-
ing, with cantaloupe,
crisp bacon and_ but-
tered toast; luncheon
when the guests eat
cooling salads or hot
waffles in the shade of
the oid elm trees; and
at dinner, in the de-
scending dusk, the
garden assumes an en-
chanted appearance
and is illuminated with
golden Chinese lan-
terns. Here and there
is the glow of a cigar-
ette and it is nothing
unusual to distinguish
through the low buzz

as-

dining room of a boys’ school, and fr«my
two years association with a friend who
owns a large hotel in Atlantic City.

As my capital was very limited, I
started in a modest way, always keeping
to my standard of good food, well but
simply prepared, and nicely served,

A Dinner for a Dollar

| PEDEVEER: a four-course dinner for a
dollar, and another one, minus soup
and salad, for seventy-five cents. Our

prices, and our service had
already attracted a
large number when I
realized that summer
was approaching. On
page 388 you will find

our

menus,

a representative selec-
tion from these menus,
showing what was
served.

There were predic-
tions on every hand
‘that the summer of
1921 would be dull.
Washington is a hot

city during June, July,
and August, and eyery-

:

: one who could leaye

. was likely to go, since

: the war no longer kept

“ : them there. The goy-
ernment departments
were laying off hun-

dreds of employees
and, what is more, we
were facing hard times.

of conversation talk , ee There were in the
which betrays that the ; ———— : “same neighborhood a
occupants of certain Through the alley and out into a lovely bit number of tea rooms

tables are diplomats or
statesmen of national

of unsuspected greenery
entrance of the Tintern Tea Garden.

is the summer

In

which were run on the
same lines as mine had

reputation. There are winter the tables are moved indoors, but been during the win-
pretty girls, and offi- mith the first breath of spring air they are ter. With the first
cers, too, for there is placed in the garden again. day of June some of

an abundance of Army

and Navy men who are fond of good food.
In all downtown Washington, through

its first summer, the Tintern Tea Garden

stood as an exception. It had no rivals

because there was nothing like it,

The Beginning Was a Modest One

Y family had lived in Memphis,

Tennessee, so that I was well versed
in Southern cooking. My first visit to
Washington was made during the war
when I came to see my son before he went
overseas, My visit had shown me the
possibilities of managing a successful tea
room. I had had some qualifying experi-
ence from nine years in charge of the

37

boarded — their
doors and hung up announcements that
they would be closed until October. Eyvi-
dently their proprietors had dreaded the
same dull period with which I was con-
fronted. But while competitors would be
fewer, there would still be enough tea
rooms and restaurants in the neighbor-
hood, I realized, to demand that some-
thing must be done to hold business,
That is why I thought of the garden,
or, as it would be wiser to express it, of
the back yard! The house, an old-fash-
ioned one, is separated from the next one
by a three-foot alley, which opens directly
onto the main street and leads to the
yard in the rear, so that entrance may be

these

had to the garden without passage through
the house. This alley is in constant use.

“Come Into the Garden”

Iii yard had a brick wall on one side

and a very respectable privet hedge
on the other. There was a large elm tree,
while the maple in the adjoining yard af-
forded additional shade,

Tea Garden” and a lantern each side.
Our friends warned us that we would
have to contend with flies and mosquitoes,
but by using slaked lime around garbage
pails and ash cans, we were not bothered.
I know that usually it would have paid
to advertise, and I realize now that by
neglecting to do so we might have made a
mistake, But luck was with us from the
start, and our patronage grew to be as

Across the lower end of the yard, to large a one as we could manage.
shut out the sight of the alley, was built We initiated our garden by serving at
a fence of poultry wire, eight feet high, first light refreshments in the evening.
with an arched passage- Soon we had our open-
way, capped with flower MENUS air dinner, and _ this
boxes. Another cross meal became so popu-
fence was erected at the CLUB BREAKFAST lar that within ‘ cae
house end of the yard, No. 1, 50c days there were re-
to screen the entrance Cantaloupe or Cereal quests for an outdoor

to the kitchen and serv-

1 Egg with Bacon

breakfast and luncheon,

ing porch, while the Potatoes, Hot Bread and the number of men
narrow passage between Tea or Coffee who came to our noon-
the two buildings was No. 4, 35c day meal increased by
roofed with poultry Fruit or Cereal such leaps and bounds
wire. Marmalade, Toast that we could scarcely
The poultry wire of- Tea or Coffee handle their waffle or-
fered the groundwork ders.
for decoration. Against LUNCHEON, No. 1, 45c It is not unusual, in
this were massed spruce Braised Veal, one Vegetable our garden, to see a

and pine boughs, so that Hot Biscuit

Tea or Coffee

well-known artist sketch-

the ends of the yard ing upon his paper nap-
were completely hidden LUNCHEON, No. 3, 80c kin’ the picture of a
and : caper Breen boy motheredes one niceen pretty girl, ane insert
ery look was given to : i ing in the hole which
that part of the garden. One Vegetable, Hot Biscuit marks her round mouth
The flower boxes were Tomato Salad or the silver quarter with
filled with pines and 15c Dessert whieh he tips the wait-
plants, in the hope that, Tea or Coffee er, Admiral McCulley,
together with those who adopted the seven
planted below, the fence CHICKEN DINNER, $1.00 Russian children, once
would soon be covered; Z Tomato Soup brought ‘his unusual
but as the growth was Fried Spring Chicken family, with his niece
not sufficient, we have Two Vegetables and the Russian maid,
kept the spicy spruce Hot Biscuit Dessert to a meal.

boughs, now turned soft Tea or Coffee The atmosphere is
and brown, and _ have (Salad 25c extra) one of congeniality.

added from time to time
fresh laurel to brighten it. Over the nar-
row we put other boughs of
spruce and pine. They serve as a back-
ground and give out the spicy odor sug-
gestive of the woods, and always bring a
comment from the newcomer.

For furnishings, ordinary deal tables
and kitchen chairs were used. We painted
the tables glossy black and the chairs vari-
colored—orange, brilliant blue, soft laven-
der, pale, or deep green, rich crimson. On
the tables we used small painted doilies.

Orange and vellow flowers were massed
in baskets which hung against the wall in

dull

passage

green vases and in one old copper
Chinese incense burner, and orange and

yellow Chinese lanterns were strung from
the elm tree.

Over the entrance we hung a
tea tray with the inscription

bamboo
“Tintern

The guests like to dine
the open while the weather permits,

in
and the feeling that nobody is waiting for

their places has resulted in. the Tintern
Tea Garden becoming a rendezvous for
many friends who feel that they may
take their time and peacefully converse
over the coffee cups.

She Makes Money and Friends

ae the time of this writing, we are
still eating in the garden, but with
the approach of autumn and cold weather,
we transplant our garden into the house.
Our first summer has been a_ profitable
one, for we have not only made money,
but we have also made many worthwhile
friends, so that next spring, with the
coming of the first robin, we shall plan
our second season in the garden.
Maraquerite Rambaut Hill.

The linen is plain fringed, or Madeira. kept beautifully while and dried in the sun; and there
are always flowers on the tables

Garden Tea Room

UST how the present tea garden came

into being we are unable to explain.
The situation may have had as much to
do with it as anything, for the back yard
is a plot of several south of the
house, surrounded on three sides by trees
and wild shrubbery,

We began with a regulation afternoon
tea that “would not spoil one’s dinner at

acres

night,” but it did not take many weeks
for the fact to dawn upon us that what

people wanted was something to eat.
Many of our guests are automobile par-
ties coming from long distances, and it 18
a well-known fact that no form of exer-
cise can create a better appetite. There-
for we have evolved the following menu:

Fruit or watermelon cocktail

Soups (purée of peas and tomato)

Seoteh (made by a dear
Scotch lady’s recipe)

Cream biscuit (buttered, then put in a

old

scones

hot oven for a few minutes before
serving )
Salads—pear, peach, pineapple, and

mixed fruit; crab, salmon, and chick-

en; cucumber, tomato, and Arabian
salad
For salad dressing, the cream boiled

dressing is the most popular, but many

like our mayonnaise. For the green
vegetables, usually French dressing is
used, We keep the lettuce and fruits

crisp on ice, and make our salads up in a
cool basement cellar, so they may be sent
to the table cool and appetizing. We
serve two and all our prices are
based on a good, generous helping.

Cold meats are roast lamb or yeal and
chicken, with which we serve hot potato
cakes made of mashed potatoes.

Our sweets consist Gf maple mousse and
angel cake. The mousse is made of pure
Vermont maple sirup and the of
thick cream from a nearby farm, packed

sizes,

best

and frozen in an agate freezer.

Other sweets we serve occasionally are
brownies, molasses doughnuts, and can-
dies; for drinks on hot days, iced tea,
coffee, jemon mint, and ginger ale: hot
drinks are tea, coffee, and chocolate.

The serving is as important as the
cooking. We have the best he!p obtain-
able and pay good wages, Our wait-

resses are girls of high-school age, dainty
and ladylike, with an older girl for gen-
eral helper.

The dishwashing came near being. our
Waterloo the first season. It seemed we
must give up our Sedji, for it was nicked,
the silver was far from clean, and the
glasses were cloudy and unfit to send to
the tables. Now we have our best paid
help for this branch, and the results are
most satisfying. The and all
drinking dishes are dipped in a_bichlor-
ide solution before going through a_ hot
suds. The glasses shine and the china,

glasses

too, for all are wiped from good, hot suds
with towels washed, rinsed thoroughly,
and dried in the sun. They are never
used but the once without going through

the laundry. When _ soiled dishes are
brought in from the tables, they are

scraped, sorted, and rinsed under the cold-
water faucet and piled ready for washing.
These are ready to put through a hot suds
and then wipe without rinsing again.

The sign is a wooden teapot, two feet
in diameter, painted green, with the let-
tering in script:

GARDEN THA ROOM,
OPEN WEEK DAYS,
12:30 to 6:30

The tea-room furnishings are Nature’s,
except chairs and tables. The chairs are
old hickory, a dining-room size and a
small tea-room size. These are left out
of doors in all sorts of weather from the
time we open in June until we close the
middle of September. The smaller tables,
just large enorgh for two or three people,
are old hickory also, For parties of from
four to six, we found it more practical
to have tables made by a local cabinet
maker. They are of a rustic style, with
plain tops. All are varnished and need
doing over only a few times each season.
We find it more practical to have pol-
ished tops on which we can use doilies

than to allow the tables to become tar-
nished and use tablecloths, The only care
the tea room needs is clipping the grass
weekly and raking away the sticks and
leaves.

It may be helpful to know just how
our work is planned:

During the forenoon the scones, salad

dressing, biscuits, foundation for maple
mousse and angel cake are made. Abour
noon the cream is whipped and the

mousse packed for afternoon, all canned
goods to be used placed on the ice, the
lettuce cleaned and placed in a cloth on
ice, cream mixed with salad dressing, ice
chipped for drinks and placed in basin in
ice box, and everything possible made
ready for serving.

When guests arrive someone meets them
and shows them to a table. While the
waitress takes their orders, the other
helper sees that water is boiling for tea
or coffee and the oven hot for scones and
biscuit. When the waitress comes in with
the orders, both make up salads, or pre-
pare cold meats. By this method the
guests are served quickly. When the wait-
ress goes to clear the table for the second
course, the helper in the kitchen prepares
the cake, dishes the ice cream and sees that
the finger bowls are ready. By working
in this manner, with everything in readi-
ness beforehand, the serving is simple,

Mrs. D. A. Stevens.

The Copper Kettle

O one seems quite to know how the

Copper Kettle Guild started, and
since it started no one has had time to
find out!

At first a dozen or so of the younger
townswomen who did fancy work of all
sorts, got together in a very informally
organized way and hired a little vacant
shop in the village for two weeks, early
in the summer, The display of work
which they got together — embroidery —
mostly small, moderately priced pieces ; cut
leather work, which was very popular
just then; and a few gracefully shaped
baskets—was attractive, even spread out
the ugly little counter of the still
uglier little “‘store.’”’” What was more to
the point, the things sold or most of them
did and the “summer people’ and “na-
tives’ joined in asking, Oliver-like, for
“more.”

Before the season was over, we moved
our faney work, our baskets and our
very modest tea equipment into a little
five-room brick cottage, quaint,~ but
inconvenient, which had stood untenanted
near the center of town for many years;
and then the Copper Kettle was swung

on
,

“ee

40

into place over the front door. That year
the three lower rooms gave us plenty of
space for displaying our wares to which
were added cakes, cookies and numerous
other home-made ‘‘goodies,’—and for sery-
ing tea in the afternoons,

Last year we branched out a bit more
and were doing catering on a small scale
as well as giving class or private lessons
in various handicrafts.

Now almost the whole town is enjoying
the benefits of the Copper Kettle, and this
is how it is managed:

The Guild has two classes of members
active, whose vearly dues are but fifty
cents; and contributing members, whose
annual dues are two dollars. The officers

and executive committee of four are
chosen from among the active members

who are divided into numbered committees
with eight members each. Each commit-
tee in turn has charge of the rooms for
a week and they arrange among them-
selves who shal! be in attendance each
dav.

Since the tea room and cooked food
department prospered so well we have put
that in charge of a member who needed

the money and who also had “the know-
how.” She serves tea and sandwiches or
homemade cookies every afternoon from
three to six in summer and three after-

noons a week in winter, asking fifteen
cents. She will also serve more elaborate

refreshments when ordered in advance,
and several times we have let the rooms
for evening parties for which she has
catered. She gives the Guild a small per
cent of her receipts. She also has charge
of the cooked food counter where the ar-
ticles made by the active or contributing
members find a ready sale.

The fancy articles are plainly marked
with their selling price when brought in
and the Guild receives ten per cent of
their selling price after they are sold.
The food is sold on the same basis and
the expert cake, doughnut, cookie and
candy makers of the town reap annually a
small harvest. Mince-meat, plum pud-
dings, pickles, jellies and preserves have
also proved popular in their season at the
special Thanksgiving and Christmas sales,
ete:

The summer people are, of course, our
greatest source of revenue, but we have
found it profitable to open The Copper
IKXettle for three afternoons a week dur-
ing the winter also.

Several societies now use the rooms for
meetings and pay a small sum monthly ror

Sifie form lea

EEMING accidents of circumstance
and environment frequently tip the
scale of human events toward that success
which every individual craves. It was
thus in the genesis of The Torii Shop and
Tea Room, at Castine, Maine.
In 1907 we found ourselves for
summer jn

the

a small boarding-house where

The summer home of the Torii, on the coasi of Maine,
may eat on an open-air porch overlooking

41

the privilege, which means more money in
our pockets.

At first we used such odds and ends
of old furniture as were contributed
from the well-stocked attics of the vil-
lage, but we have since covered two floors
with a plain matting and purchased small
tables and chairs, two second-hand show-
cases, a modest stock of china and a few
good cooking utensils. The landlord con-
sented to paint and paper the lower
rooms, repair the old kitchen stove and
open a long-unused fireplace.

The upper rooms are used in summer
by those teaching needle and leather work,
either in classes or separately, many of
the pupils coming from the hotel near by.
We hire the cleaning done and, in winter,
have the walk shoveled and the fires made.

The secret of the success of the “Copper
IXettle” has been, we think, that every-

thing was genuine and really ‘home
made,” from the wafers served with the

tea to the braided and woven rugs made
by two members, which have proven espe-

cially popular. Nothing has been ‘“im-
ported” from Japan, Germany or even

New York, and therein has lain the charm
that has attracted the visitor from afar.
We have given of our own and in so doing
have been made richer, not only in pocket
but in heart and life as well.

Mrs. William I’, Schoppe.

and Giit Shop

we could not entertain our friends after

the manner we wished. Being familiar
with Japanese tea houses, with studio
teas, and having read of English tea

rooms, we proposed: ‘Let us open a stu-
dio tea room, and have a place wherein
to invite these friends.”

Casting about for a

suitable location

is so planned that guests
the water

THE TORI SHOP

tae

i)

I ma ‘mH

Under the name sign on the window ts

for our hospitable intent, we hired for
five dollars the cellar of an old brick
building at the head of the steamboat pier.
This had served its day as fish market
and grocery and was at the time
the storage room of coal, coal buckets,
and hoisting tackle. The owner of these
articles, superfluous to a tea room, cleared

store,

them away, turned a hose on the place,
and, when it had dried, turned it over
to us with the firm and amused _ belief
that we were a pair of harmless lunatics.

At the expense of a day’s worth of half-

grown boy, with horse and beach wagon
and hatchet, we lined the four walls of

our hopeless-looking studio-in-embryo with
cedar

trees, Then, from my own trunks,
which had just completed a trip around
the world, we gleaned draperies to cover
the exposed laths of ceiling and upper
walls, where the aged plaster had let go
its tottering hold. We then curtained off
a corner for a kitchenette, borrowed two
tables and a few chairs—and there we
were.

Our next move was the purchase of one
dozen medallion cups, saucers and plates,

twenty-five-cent oil stove, one small tea-
kettle, and some minor indispensables.

A sign was the last requirement. Hence,
upon a yard of unbleached muslin I
painted in black with letters of Japanese
stvle, thus keeping our Oriental, ‘‘tone,”’
‘Tea Room,” flanking the words with a
green rabbit, a red teapot. and a’ green
and red cup and saucer, This we tacked

our
business.

r, and were ready
to ready

open doo

That is

just outside

for say, to

Ha]
id
:
2
2
*
A
]

the Japanese emblem which inspired it

entertain our friends, most informally.

To share the initial afternoon brew, we
invited ten guests, Thus, as there were

two hostesses, our table furnishings were
taxed to their limit. Into the midst of
the enjoyment of sharing the first pot of

tea in our very own surroundings, Dame
Chance poked a disconcerting nose: A
yachting party landed at the steamboat
pier. Our sign fulfilled its destiny; the

members of this party crowded inquisitive-
ly into our studio, and, as hostesses of
sporting though thrifty New England an-
cestry, we rose to the occasion. One prac-
tical friend scurried into the kitchenette
to get busy with hot water and dish towel.
A second g: our but half-emptied
cups and passed them behind the scenes
for washing, <A third ran to a nearby
grocery for more biscuits and a half-pound
of The other seven retired to the
smaller table, and radiated the atmosphere
of satisfied patrons lingering for a chat.

thered

cheese,

A gentleman from this yachting party.
hetween drinks of tea, asked the price of
a Moro art-square which hid the largest
and most ghastly hole in the ceiling, On

the spur of the moment my partner named
a price which she considered prohibitive.

pa the gentleman, “Good; I'll take it!”
“But you can’t have it until we close at
six,’ desperately spoke partner, in an

effort to fend off the sale. Said the gen-
tleman: “That’s all right. We'll take a
run about town and return here at six.”
We awoke the next morning face to
face with our opportunity. and were alert
enough it. The around-the-

to recognize

world trunks were ransacked for trinkets
and knicknacks that could be spared.
After that we borrowed a show case and
established a gift corner.

When we closed that season, after less
than three hectic weeks, we had teaed a
large part of the summer residents about
the shores of Penobscot Bay, and had sold
everything we could spare, including the
medallion china. Also, we had made many
new friends, all of whom plead: “You
will come back next year, won't you?”

We did, But to a larger stage with
more attractive natural scenery.

Before leaving Castine that autumn, we
learned of a man on the waterfront, who
purposed to put up a portable bungalow
for rent the following spring. We at once
contracted for it as the home of The Torii
Shop and Tea Room. At present the
business owns this bungalow—also the
waterfront lot on which it stands—which
has been twice enlarged to accommodate
our guests. Before another season we
purpose to remodel it for the third time,
and to open an annex,

Following the fourth year of our sum-
mer work we opened a winter gift shop
in an apartment in Syracuse, New York.
Syracuse would draw our Auburn friends
to trade, had size, straight rail connection
east and west, and also with Ogdensburg
—the transfer shipping point for the Can-
adian Pacific service, by which we later

got our swiftest delivery of Oriental
freight.

By this time, partly because of our
knowledge of and interest in Oriental

goods, and partly because we were finding
such wares to be our best sellers, we con-
centrated on Oriental goods. Having a
personal knowledge of the Far East mar-
kets we were doing our own importing,
and making a specialty of old embroider-
les and brocades, and carved wood from
Japan, We called these, in advertising,
“House and home accessories,” and kept
strictly to artistic things useful in the
home. In buying, we rejected all articles
that had no utilitarian purpose, and stil!
continue to do so. In selling, we made an
effort to know our goods thoroughly, then
to instruct our helpers, so that we might
be relied upon in shop representations.

Once established in Syracuse we soon
found that gift shops were springing up
all over the country, And these shops
Were increasingly turning to us. So
we secured our own rating and opened a
wholesale department to supply our sister
gift shops. Thus we continued for sey-
eral years, with headquarters in Syracuse
from October to June and in Castine dur-
ing the summer months,

Finally, we were solicited to open what
we believe to be the first strictly gift-shop
department in a department store, in Bing-
hamton, New York, and thereafter or-
ganized a number of such departments.

Were we asked: “To what do you owe
your success?” we might boil it down to
force of circumstances, cheerful service,
and hard-labor—though we have ever been
on the alert and were not afraid to grasp
opportunity when it has faced us.

Grace P. T. Knudson.

On my sign was a
large, fal, jolly look-
ing Palmer Cox brownie
pointing to the words “T House”

This was just a
two-room, one-Stoly
building which a doctor
had once used as an office

The Brownie Tea House

UR house was formerly owned by a
doctor who had a_ two-room, one-
story building in the yard for an office.

Two years ago, when I wanted to earn a
little extra money, it occurred to me that
I might run a Tea House there. I talked
it over with my husband, and finally de-
try my luck.

I planned only a few necessary repairs
and decorations. Some wall paper I had
in the house was used for the walls of the
front room. It was a grayish paper with
pink wild roses rambling over it, A fresh

cided to

coat of paint to match the gray in the
paper, for the woodwork, and a darker
gray for the floor made the little room

into a quite different place. For curtains,
I took some unbleached cheesecloth from
my husband’s store and dyed it old-rose
to match the roses in the paper. When
the curtains were up, they added much
to the attractiveness of the room,

Four little square tables. made by my
good father, and painted with white enam-
el paint, and chairs for which I ransacked

the house. were the chief furniture, In
one corner of the room I put up a cup-
board with sliding glass doors, for my
cakes. Little tables for flowers, and three
rugs completed the furnishings of the
front room. Into the back room we

moved an oil stove, ice box, table and ice-
cream container.

On the first day of July, having hung
up my “brownie” sign, I was ready for
business. The case was filled with a va-
riety of cakes, and three kinds of home-
made ice cream were prepared, Vases of
digitalis and roses filled the windows and
decorated the tables. It was a fragrant.

44

clean, attractive room,
awaited my first customer.

At the end of the first week, I was dis-
couraged at having no more trade; but
before the season was over I had more
than I could handle. I had served some
large chicken dinners, many afternoon
salad parties, and several birthday spreads,
besides serving luncheon at any hour to
tourists, and putting up picnic lunches
too numerous to mention,

I kept the place open from eight in the
morning until twelve at night. I did not
always stay in the Tea Room. as I had
my baking to do, but I had an electric
bell put in, which would ring in the
kitchen when anyone opened the door.

The second year I had a small line of
gifts and installed electricity. Old-rose
shades over the lights added much to the
charm of the place in the evening.

[I should not advise anyone to open a tea
room who is not prepared to put real
effort into it. But it has meant extra
money for me, as it will for others if they
are willing to work with their hands.

I feel so confident of continued success,
that another year I want to take down the
partition, add an open fireplace and redec-
orate the place, painting the walls a soft
gray and stenciling a border of brownies
around the top. This would necessitate
adding a kitchen. Outside. I want a wide
porch where, on hot evenings, my guests
may sit and watch the moon over the lake,

and [|

eagerly

forget the cares and worries of the city,
and so go back to their homes all the
stronger for their visits to the Brownie

Tea House.

Vrs. Charlotte MW. Fillebrown.

ROM that June day in 1867 when

the ‘‘ Allan Gurney’ slid down the
ways, until December, 1920, when she
had carried her last cargo of coal from
the mainland to Nantucket and lay in
the harbor awaiting the desolate fate
of worn-out vessels, she had had many
But the strangest of all
was yet to come, when she was char-
tered for a voyage to untried seas bi

The Skipper

adventures.

a

vas on one of the narrow streets of

the quaint old town, almost hidden away,

The house was so small that the front
room held but four tables; the porch was
crowded by three more, and the pocket
handkerchief of a garden had four others,
shaded by bright orange-colored umbrellas.
The signboard, which hung from the tele-
scope held by a wooden ‘Skipper’ in oil-
skins, announced: ‘The Skipper serves
the things you like.” The signboard must
have told the truth, for the Skipper’s pop-
ularity advanced by leaps and bounds;
and long before the season was over the

Skipper’s “mates” realized that neither
PE Ss
they nor their patient patrons would

stand such close quarters another summer.

The search for a house began in a
leisurely way in October, but by Christ-
mas it became frantic; owners were be-
sieged by letter, telephone, and telegram,
to no avail, No house large enough for
the Skipper’s needs seemed to be in the
market.

It was February when someone, looking
across the harbor, jeeringly suggested that
the only things for sale in Nantucket
were the “Allan Gurney’ and the old
laundry building on the steamboat wharf.
Here was an idea. <A schooner, ninety
feet long, and an empty building, almost
sixty feet square, flashed before the two
girls as an opportunity for a most effee-
tive combination.

Once again telegrams began to flv, and
finally the “‘Skipper girls,” as Nantucket
dubbed them, were owners of boat and
building. It was neariy the end of June
before electricians. carpenters, and plumb-
ers moved out and the Skipper was ready
for his second vovage.

And the second voyage was to he even
more successful than the first. As one
old captain expressed it: “It'll go; first

’

45

HE SERVES
THE THINGS

YOU LIKE
AT

15 Liberty St.
Nantucket

place, them girls feed ’em, and that’s what
folks want—good feeding and plenty of
it; then they’re smart, smartest on this
island. Anybody’d have to be smart to
take an old rat hole like that and turn it
into something worth looking at.”

The Skipper was indeed ‘worth looking
at.” The original Skipper signboard,
freshened with a new coat of paint,
swings before the gateway, from a lamp
post which the town fathers allowed to
be painted orange also. The building it-
self has been left a weather-beaten gray,
the doors and window frames are bottle-
green, and the wooden shutters, which
swing out from the top like awnings, are
stained bright orange. The space in front
of the building is divided into two sec-
tions: one a service yard, masked with a
high latticed fence, through which the
kitchens are entered; the other a diminu-
tive garden just large enough for a bencii
shaded by one of the umbrellas from the
previous year, a flagged pathway to the
hospitable, double doors, and a tangle of

blue cornflowers, celandines, and mari-
golds, enclosed with a low paling fence
and arched gateway.

Inside, the great barnlike room is di-
vided hy a partition: the big entrance
doors open upon a wide reception-room
with high-backed bench and registration
desk, with quaint sea pictures hanging
above them, and a small dressing-room
and the steward’s office on the right. Ex-
cept for this entrance hall. the whole
front of the building is given over to
the service-rooms. which have been eare-
fully planned. The kitchen is large with
plenty of room for both gas and coal
ranges, sink. drain-hboard and_— serving
table. At one end of it is a good-sized

storeroom and at the other an out-kitchen
with built-in refrigerators and space for

the “Atlan Gurney’s” hoisting engine,
which is pressed into service again and
now turns the Skipper’s ice-cream freez-
Next to the kitchen comes the large
pantry for dish-washing, with a huge
sink and a specially fine draining board,
and ample shelving for the china and
glass. Then the serving-room, with its
double shelves for the waitresses’ trays,
sugar bowls, salts and peppers, doilies,
napkins, ete.; and its own range,
sink, refrigerator, and serving table—for
it is here that all the salads, sandwiches,
hot and cold drinks, are composed. Above
these rooms is a second floor, used as the
sleeping quarters of the cook, her assist-
ants, and the waitresses.

ers,

gas

The rest of the big square room has
been left open to the roof, which, with
the numerous win-
dows on the _ three
sides, gives an effect
of light and space. i

The rafters and ceil-
ing are unpainted:
the walls are a creamy
white, a good neutral
background for the
strips of cretonne cov-
ered with large par-
rots in vivid greens,
blues, reds and -yel-
lows, which serve as
curtains, the  high-
backed bright orange-
colored benches, and
the dark green tables
and chairs picked out
with orange lines.
The ship’s Compass
on its orange painted
base is in the center
of the room. Two
lines of ships’ signal
flags hang from the
rafters ; in the center
is the ship’s lantern,

per, and, attractive as the inside room
has been made, there are often parties
who prefer to wait rather than eat any-
where except on the boat.

And the Skipper’s popularity is not
only with the “off-islanders.” To be sure,
the summer people are there in force, cot-
tagers, cliff-dwellers, flappers, and athletes
from the yacht club, yacht owners who
have put in for the night, actors and other
celebrities from *Sconset; but also New
England ladies from the beautiful high-
columned Colonial houses of Main Street,
and ruddy old captains from the famous
Pacific Club. Even sight-seers have added

the Skipper to their list and visit the
vessel in the same spirit in which they
take in the Maria Mitchell House, the

windmill, and the historical society

The ship’s galley, a
deck house hiding the
stern, has been trans-
formed into a cozy
suite of rooms, with
two cabin bedrooms,
a sitting-room, and a
bath for its owners.

The Skipper’s menu
is entirely 4 la carte,
certain dishes appear-
ing more often than
others, according to
their popularity; a
very rich clam chow-
der began, for in-
stance, as a Friday
dish, but was in such
demand that it soon
had to be served on
other days. The Sat-
urday - night baked
beans and brown
bread were so delici-
ous that the New
England housewives
often came to carry
them off for Sunday

while the port and breakfast. Lobster
starboard lights are salad held high favor.
in the far corners. /t was February when some one, looking ‘The chicken A la
Flattened pie plates across the harbor, jeeringly suggested that Wing, Hollanden blue-
with orange painted — the only thing for sale in Nantucket was the fish, broiled plaice

edges are used as re-
flectors for the
tric lights, whose
stand in orange-colored
Czech vases hold the flowers
ler with celandine and _ cornflowers,
clover and chicory reproduce the orange,
blue, red, and white of the vases’ decora-
tions, Orange and awnings shade
the deck, while two of the umbrellas from
the old garden shade two extra tables in
the bow. The fourteen tables on the boat
are so popular that there is seldom a sin-
gle table vacant at luncheon, tea, or sup-

elee-

candle-shaped holders
patty pans.
-lusty mil-
or

green

“Allan Gurney,” a schooner ninety feet long

46

fish, macaroni, Skip-
per style (and “Skip-
per style’ always betokened some espe-
cially rich and original dish), among the
“ready-to-serve dishes” vied with the
broiled live lobster, chicken, minute indi-
vidual] steaks and double lamb chops of the
“dishes to order,” in popularity.

So great has become the Skipper’s
fame that at the “Sankaty” docks each
day there js always someone who is ready
to give newcomers a full account of the
Skipper’s successful cruise.

Julia W, Williamson.

New Ways of Turning Food
into Money

She Runs a Successful Soda Fountain

N order to support my two younger

brothers and put them through school
I decided to launch forth into the business
world, with the small amount of capital
which I had at my disposal. This was
the immediate cause of. my business ca-
reer, but I often think that I got more
out of it than they did.

In my home town of fifteen thousand
people I found an excellent location, just
where everybody had to pass by on the
way to and from the station. People
would buy lunches to take with them.

My equipment made rather strenuous
demands upon my purse, but I managed
to keep well within my limits. I could
not afford a fountain when starting in
business, and so I had a twelve foot
wooden counter made, with stools. A con-
tainer was built to keep two kinds of ice
cream, and the milk, butter, grapejuice,
pops, ete., were kept on the same _ ice
that packed the ice cream. In this way
I got along without a refrigerator and
saved ice bills.

At the back was a counter, fitted below
with cupboards, where I kept the dishes,
linen and other serving supplies. Above
this counter three mirrors were put in, with
glass shelves in front, where I could make
a display of fruit and appetizing dishes.
I bought the mirror in three pieces be-
cause it was so much cheaper and _ it
proved to be just as attractive.

I couldn’t afford a candy case, but had
an eight-foot table made to display my
fruit. gum and candy. Over the candy I
placed a box made of common window
glass twelve inches high by thirty-six
inches square with two sliding doors, thus
complying with the pure food law,

Toward the back of the shop I had six
booths made with long tables and seats to
hold six people, or eight during a rush.

One large booth was called the ‘Party
Room” and in it I put our large dining
room table, twelve chairs, and a_ buffet.
Here I used our personal silver, cut glass,
china and linen, to serve more elaborate
luncheons and parties. People often made
their arrangements well beforehand, s0
that I could carry out their color scheme
with candies, flowers, brick ice cream and
cakes. This room became a paying part
of the store, in a very short time.

In the back of the store I put a gas

47

range on which I could cook my cakes,
pies, meats and gravies, salad dressings,
eLG:

What cooking I did was planned for
the slack hours of the day, for during
our rush hours I was in the front of the
store, making the sandwiches, salads, and
fancy ice cream dishes, and dispensing the
soda.

Since I bought in quantity supplies that
I used constantly, such as peanut butter,
canned soups—especially tomato—baked
beans, pickles, coffee, tea, spices, catsup,
and sugar, I was often able to accom-
modate people with these supplies after
the groceries were closed, thus helping
my day’s receipts.

Such very perishable things as. sar-
dines, shrimps, lobster, crab and tuna
fish I carried in small size cans, because
I often had to open a tin for a special
salad for which I might get no more calls
that day, and I lost less by using the
smaller tin,

Another saving was my combination
coffee urn with two compartments heated
by one gas jet. In one of these com-
partments the hot milk was kept, and in
the other was the fresh coffee. I always
made fresh coffee before a rush, and had
the reputation for having the best coffee
in town.

Every day, moreover,
late and divinity fudge, panoche, and
walnut and pecan fritters. The two last
were from a recipe of my own, and proved
to be excellent sellers.

When my business was well under way
another branch of it began to develop, Tf
went to people’s homes and helped serve
their dinners and luncheons, supplying
the ice cream, salted nuts, faney candies
and punches.

In this way, I could help advertise my
soda fountain, and enlarged my patronage
constantly, so that the two ends of the
business supplemented each other very
successfully.

Altogether
but the fun
and making

I made choco-

I am a very busy woman;
of developing my business
all I can from it more
than makes up to me for the leisure
hours which I have sacrificed, to say
nothing of the steady income which my
soda store brings in.

Laura Brouillard,

Jane’s Praline Kitchen

HE second winter alter I left school,
having nothing in particular to do
and needing a little pin money as well as
an occupation, I hit on the idea of making
pralines and selling them at my uncle's
drug store.
very one said my pralines were the
best ever, and each day I tried to make
them a little better than they were the
day before. I went exactly by Mammy’s

recipe, used nothing but the best sugar
and richest pecans and, to make then
dainty, wrapped each one in oil paper.

The candy became very popular with our
winter tourists. In fact the demand
Came so great that I just monopolized
Mother’s kitchen, and from November to
May the cook and I fussed continually.
After the pecan was over I
gan to plan a work room for the winter.
We have an old barn in our back yard
with several big oaks that shade it niceis
and such a variety of flowers that
thing continually.
suggested turn this barn
work reom, I was delighted with
idea. Of the barn was
large so I just fixed up one of the stalls
(ten by twelve feet). I had a carpenter
floor and ceil it and build a big cupboard
at the entire
he put sliding windows to make
While the carpenters were working on
the “kitchen” I wrote to numerous phox
factories for prices on cartons in which
to mail pralines. as I had had many calls
for from folks who wanted
the candy Eventually I
found a factory that manufactured exact-
lv what I which

be-

season be-

some-
Mother
into a
the

too

blooming
that I

is

course whole

west side

it bright.

one end. Across

boxes to send

as @ souvenir.

wanted—a round carton

a.)

“a

could be made just big enough for the
praline to slip in, and deep enough to hold
a dozen, I sent in my order for a thou-
sand and then wrote to a very
clever friend of mine who designed a most
original wrapper to paste on the box.

I painted—all by myself—the walls,
ceiling and furniture. I used old ivory,
tipping the tables and chairs with brown,

cartons

and used brown and green cretonne cur-
tains, After buying a small oil stove 1

had everything ready.

As soon as the pecans started getting
ripe, IL bought several hundred pounds
and commenced work. The hardest part

of all was cracking and shelling the nuts.
It was very tedious, but I had a cracker
which made it easy and when I got in a
rush Dad and Mother would lend a hand.

Pralines remained my specialty—but I
introduced another candy: “Charlottes”
(named for the friend who designed the
wrapper). They’re a kind of glacé nut
but not so hard and much better. I
made chocolate and divinity fudge.

That winter I did remarkably well, us-
ing over one thousand pounds of sugar and
something like thousand pounds of
pecans, I advertised at our local picture
show and in that way brought most of
the trade direct to me though I still sold
quite a bit of candy at the drug store.
And a great many people who had got
pralines from me the year before sent
orders around Christmas and Easter.

Last fall I enlarged the “Witchen,” tak-
ing in another stall and now it is twelve
by twenty feet. Last winter I had a little
maid to help as ousiness increased.

Jane Northrop.

aiso

two

Bs:
Fins

Sao tee

Here's the whole story—Jane, her garden, and the Kilchen where she makes her pralines

1

A Home-Run Lunch Counter

BRIGHT young womau was forced
a short time ago to give up an out-
side position to be at home with three in-
valids whom she had been supporting, so
she went to the managers of two of the
leading cigar and billiard parlors in her

town, and asked them if she could try
serving luncheons at their soda foun-
tains. They agreed to let her try.

She does the baking for the two places
at home, and bakes chiefly pies, dough-
nuts and cakes, She makes potato salad

A Family

MAN and his wife, too old to take
care of a large business, were made
independent in the following manner :
The man is caretaker of an apartment
house which has about twenty families
living in it. They got along comfortably
on what he made, but could not save any-
thing, so they set to work to find some
means of increasing their small income.
The basement of the apartment house
has an outside entrance, which they con-
verted into a miscellaneous shop. Canned
milk, butter, bread, sandwiches and ice
cream are now sold, and they take orders
from the tenants and from neighboring
families for cake, pie and doughnuts, So
many of the young married couples who

in large quantities ; and sandwiches of all
sorts—ham, pork, veal, beef and various
kinds of cheese—and wraps them sepa-
rately in paraffin paper so that they are
always fresh.

Iler day begins at five, when she gets
up and does her baking. This is finished
by ten, and she delivers before eleven, at
which time the soda clerks start serving
luncheons. Thus the rest of the day is
hers to look after the home which
refused to sacrifice.

she

Restaurant

occupy the building are office workers that
the caretaker and his wife do a great
business. They now employ a cook eiglit
hours a day, using their own kitchen, and
they also have two helpers in the shop.

Besides supplying the above mentioned
things, they sell fresh vegetables so that
the people who are away all day can pur-
chase fresh things for dinner without hay-
ing to stop on the way home from work.

In the summer they run a_ successful
lunch business, for when people are away
on their vacations, the member of the
family remaining at home usually prefers
the downstairs lunch room to solitude.

As there is an elevator in the building,
the shop is accessible to the tenants.

She Cooked Her Girls Through College

FINE, capable woman who wanted

to put her daughters through the
university accomplished her aim as _ fol-

lows:

She was already paying rent in her home
community, so she decided to move to the
university town and rent there instead.
She secured a modern six-room bungalow
within a short distance of the campus.

The living and dining rooms were large
and pleasant, and were separated only by
two columns. In the front room there
was a fireplace with bookcases and seats
on each side. The floors were laid with
bright colored linoleum to match the gay
window hangings. From a sash and door
factory she ordered nine tables enameled
in white with blue trimmings, and chairs
to match. These were arranged in the
living and dining rooms and easily ac-
commodated forty people without making
the rooms look crowded.

The house had a glass sun-porch open-
ing off the living room, in which a piano
was placed. When students had their
friends or parents to entertain they had
musi¢ and privacy and special service.

Her schedule was as follows: Breakfast
from six-thirty to eleven, luncheon from

eleven-thirty to two-thirty, tea from
three-thirty to five-thirty, and a_ four-

course dinner from six to eight.

Before long she began putting up lunches
in a neat basket with cover and two han-
dies, for the students to take with them
on trips or hikes. Fine fruit cake, which
she now sends all over the country, was
one of her specialties, and she also took
orders for special birthday cakes,

A glass case in the living-room was
filled with milk chocolate, almond bar,

nougat bar, caramel bar, and peanut bar:
and in glass jars on top of this case were
gumdrops and mints.

Bunt the shop which she started in con-
nection with her dining-room has devel-
oped to such an extent that much more
than this is for sale here now. One can
get grapejuice and gingerale, cigarettes,
tobaceo, tickets for the big ‘varsity games
and for the opera attractions, violets and
cut flowers (by special order), bulk sugar,
walnuts and chocolate—these three for
fudge parties in the students’ rooms.

The best thing about it all is that the
mother and her daughters have become
quite independent, owning their own home
and living most pleasantly.

49

Practical Hints from Popular
Tea Rooms

66 PUST two doors off the campus of a wniversity town, in my

mother’s home, we opened our tea room.

When June came,

we were asked for recipes by the girls who were leaving college for

good and had been our constant patrons.
these same recipes should be of wider help and interest.’’

It occurred to me that
Thus

wrote Mrs. Hutchings, of The Birches Tea Room, to our T Room

Editor.

Abbreviations

c—cup fd—few drops

tb—tablespoon Ib—pound

tsp—teaspoon oz—ounce
Mayonnaise

% tsp salt

dash cayenne

dash paprika

1 tb tomato catsup
olive oit

1 egg yolk

1 tb lemon juice

% tsp Worcester-
shire sauce

2d Tabasco sauce c

Mix all ingredients except oil. Lemon
juice, added first, has a tendency to keep
dressing from curdling. Add oil—one tea-
spoon at a time—three times beating
thoroughly, then two teaspoons at a time
three times beating as before. As dress-
ing thickens, quantity of oil added may be

increased rapidly. If dressing gets too
thick to beat before oil is all in, add a

little more lemon juice. It may be needed
also to make dressing sufficiently sour.
One tablespoon boiling water added last
and beaten quickly prevents the dressing
from separating if it is kept several days
or if it is desired to add other materials
later to make a tartar sauce or Russian
dressing, ete. If the dressing curdles, put
one tablespoon of cold water or another
ege yolk in a clean bowl and start again,
using the curdled dressing first as directed
for the oil; and then finish with remain-
ing oil,

Birches Cooked Dressing

4 eggs or 6 yolks % tsp salt

1 ¢ sweet or sour 1 tsp mustard
cream, beaten stiff dash cayenne

2 tb sugar dash paprika

% ¢ vinegar

Add eggs, well beaten, to cream, then
beat. Mix dry ingredients, lastly add
vinegar, then beat again. Cook over hot
water until thick, stirring constantly.
When cold it should be as thick as mayon-
naise, Cook slowly or it is likely to

curdle,

50

With her letter she sent the recipes, and here they are:

Birches Russian Dressing
Add Chili Sauce—half and half—to

either mayonnaise or cooked dressing, and
serve. Cook slowly.

Birches Salad

20 blanched and
shredded almonds

1 ¢ mayonnaise
2% @ cabbage,

shredded 10 marshmallows,
1 ¢ pineapple, cut cut fine
fine 1c celery, cut fine

Mix, chill, and serve. This serves six

to eight salads,

Birches Salad Jellied

Omit dressing from above recipe, and
add:
1 ¢ pineapple juice 1 ¢ water
juice % lemon 1 tb gelatine

Heat water, dissolve gelatine in it, cool.
Add juice and other ingredients. Put
into wetted molds and chill. Remove from
the molds and serve with mayonnaise,

Fruit Salad

Have all cold.
order given.

S dates

10 marshmallows
% ¢ pineapple

1 stalk celery

materials Cut in the
1 apple
1% banana or less
2 oz. Tokay grapes
in season or %

1% oranges grapefruit
Mix carefully and add_ three-quarters

to one cup mayonnaise. Serve at once,

Potato Salad

hard cooked eggs
® cucumber, diced

e diced cold potato 2
1
1 ¢ mayonnaise

»
1 e diced apple
Vw ¢ celery

If mayonnaise is not very sour a little
vinegar should be sprinkled over the po-

tato. Mix ingredients, then add dressing
and toss together carefully. More salt

may be needed. This serves ten,

Pineapple, Date and Banana Salad

Cut one cup pineapple, two bananas
and eight dates; mix, and add mayonnaise.
This makes six salads.

Shrimp Salad

2 hard cooked eggs,
diced
le ¢ mayonnaise

1 ¢ shrimp
1tb lemon juice
1 © celery, diced

Cut shrimp. Sprinkle lemon juice over
shrimp, let stand one-half hour and drain,
Mix with celery and eggs. Add dressing
earefully, chill. Serves about six people.

Stuffed Peach or Pear Salad

Fill center of half peach or pear with
a mixture of grated cheese softened wilh
cream, chopped dates, and nuts. Serve
with mayonnaise.

Tuna Fish Salad

1 ¢ apple, diced

2 hard cooked eggs,
diced

1 © mayonnaise

2 ¢ tuna. broken
1% e celery, cut
small

Mix
Chill.

earefully. It easily gets
Serves six or eight people,

mushy.

Sandwiches

Butter bread for sandwiches on only
one slice, spread sandwich mixture on the
other and put the two together. Cut as
desired.

Creamy Cheese Sandwiches

% |h. grated cheese sprinkle of cayenne
fd Worcestershire cream to make soft

sauce paste
fd Tabasco sauce 1% chopped green
sprinkle of paprika pepper

Add seasonings to cheese and enough
cream to make a soft paste. Add chopped
pepper and spread on bread.

Toasted Cheese Sandwiches
Use creamy cheese mixture, spread on

bread. Put sandwich together and toast
on both sides.

Deviled Almond Sandwiches

2 oz almonds
1 th Worcestershire
sauce

2 th chopped pickles
\% tsp salt
Cayenne

1 cream cheese

Blanch and shred almonds, Saute in
butter. Add all ingredients but cheese.
Cook two minutes. Add cheese, grated.
Work mixture to a smooth paste, soften-
ing with cream if necessary. Makes six
to eight sandwiches,

Egg Salad Sandwiches

4 finely chopped
olives

cooked salad
dressing

2 hard cooked eggs

10 walnut meats,
chopped

3 chopped pickles

Mash eggs fine, add other ingredients
with enough salad dressing to make a
spreadable mixture. Makes eight to ten
sandwiches,

Minced Ham Sandwiches

Mix one-quarter pound chopped boiled
ham, two chopped pickles, four chopped
olives with enough cooked salad dressing
to spread easily.

Olive-Nut Sandwiches

Mix one-quarter cup chopped olives, one-
quarter cup chopped walnuts, and salad
dressing, to make a mixture that will
spread. Makes six to eight sandwiches.

Peanut Butter Sandwiches

Rub peanut butter to a soft paste with
cooked salad dressing. Add chopped wal-
nuts or pecans,

Pecan Sandwiches

Mix one-quarter cup chopped olives, one-
mayonnaise Gressing suflicient to make
them spread smoothly. Makes six to eight
sandwiches.

Hot Water Pie Crust

3 ¢ flour 1c lard
1 tsp baking powder '% ¢ boiling water

Add boiling water
Add _ flour

Mix dry ingredients,
to lard and beat till creamy.
and mix well, chill, then roll crusts. This
paste will keep fresh for several days.
Bake crusts for filling in a hot oven tiil
slightly browned. The amount given above
makes two double crust pies or four
crusts. It makes about two dozen indi-
vidual crusts. These may be baked on the
bottom of muffin tins. Pie crust is never
a failure with this recipe,

Meringue For Pies

Add pinch of salt to two egg whites,
beat till stiff but not dry, add three tabie-

spoons of sugar, beat again thoroughly
till stiff and smooth. ‘Then add _ three
more tablespoons of sugar and mix in

carefully. Spread. Bake in a moderate
oven till nicely browned. Too hot an
oven will make the meringue tough and
it will shrink, Meringue made in this
way will hold up a second day and will
be as nice as when first baked.

Cream Pies

2 eggs

1 ¢ chopped dates or
% e@ cocoanut or

1 ¢ chopped prunes

+15 tbh cornstarch
1 c¢ sugar

's tsp salt

2 ¢ milk

Mix dry ingredients thoroughly, add to
hot milk. Cook twenty minutes in double
boiler, Add beaten yolks and fruit or
cocoanut. Make a meringue of whites.
Fill shells, spread meringue and bake,

Amount given makes one large pie or
ten to twelve individual pies according to
size of tins.

Chocolate Pie

Add two tablespoons cocoa to dry in-
gredients in recipe for Cream Pies and
follow same directions,

Fruit Filling for Pies

Use any canned fruit, pineapples,
peaches, cherries, raspberries, ete.

1 e¢ fruit, cut small
2 eggs

sugar if desired
pinch of salt

+% to 5 tb corn-
starch

1 c water

1 e¢ fruit juice

Mix cornstarch with a little of the
water. Add to the remaining water and
fruit juice which should be boiling, Cook
over hot water twenty minutes. Add fruit
then beaten yolks of eggs and remove
from fire. Have ready meringue made
from white of eggs. Fill shells and
spread the meringue. This recipe makes
a very large pie or ten to twelve indi-
vidual pies.

Lemon Pie

9

1 c¢ sugar 2
» tb cornstarch

salt

c water
rind and juice of 1
large lemon

2 eggs

Mix sugar, cornstarch and salt, Add to
boiling water. Add grated rind of lemon
and cook for twenty minutes, then add
juice and beaten egg yolks. Remove from
the fire at once, Cool slightly and fill
baked crusts. Cover with meringue, bake.

This makes one large pie or ten little
ones,

Boiled Icing

1 ¢ sugar
1 egg white
pinch of salt

M% c soft water
‘< tsp cream of
tartar

Put sugar, water and cream of tartar

52

over fire and stir till thoroughly dissolved,
boil until it spins a long fine hair. Have
white of egg beaten stiff but not dry.
Cool sirup a few seconds, pour in a thin,
fine stream, very slowly into the egg
white, beating vigorously, Toward the
last the sirup may be added a little faster.
Beat till perfectly cold, by which time it
should be in a spreadable condition.
When the mixture is spreadable, keep
in this condition about five minutes longer

by adding a teaspoon of water several
times,
Then it will stay soft until any

number of little cakes are iced. If it does
not spread smoothly add a little water
and stir it up again. This icing on cakes
kept in a tin box will keep soft several
days.

It is therefor a splendid thing to have
on hand for emergencies.

Date Cake

% e chopped
walnuts

1% ec sifted flour

1 tsp baking powder

1 ¢ boiling water
le chopped dates
4 ¢ butter

1 e¢ sugar

1 egg % tsp soda
Pour water over dates. Cream butter,
add sugar slowly, creaming thoroughly.

Add 1 beaten egg, then walnuts, Lastly
add alternately flour with baking powder
and soda to the dates. Pour into greased
muffin tins and bake in a moderate oven
twenty-five to thirty minutes.

This recipe usually makes twelve or
fourteen little cakes. Serve with whipped
cream for dessert.

Birches Fudge

(2 pounds)

2 tb white corn
sirup

*% @ chopped pecans

1 tsp vanilla

3 @ sugar

% @ milk

3 squares chocolate
» tb oil

Put sugar, milk, chocolate, oil and
sirup in large kettle. Set over slow fire,
beat constantly until it boils, in order to
dissolve thoroughly the sugar and blend
the chocolate.

Then you can boil without © stir-
ring until sirup forms a soft ball in cold
water, without clouding the water. Take

from fire and let stand until cold. Beat
until the candy can be taken into the
hands, knead in the nuts and vanilla.

Press into a mold, when set, turn out and
cut.

Candy wil! not grain, if when cold it
has a wrinkly appearance when moved
slightly.

To avoid possible graining, be sure to
dissolve and blend materials before the
candy is allowed to boil, as this is the only
way.

More Recipes

From Alice Bradley, Principal of Miss Farmer’s School of Cookery

Beverages
HOCOLATE SIRUP for hot or iced
chocolate may be kept on hand. It is

made as follows :

4 squares unsweet- 114 cups sugar
ened chocolate 1 teaspoon salt
1% cups boiling water

Melt chocolate in saucepan placed in
larger saucepan of boiling water, add
sugar and salt, and stir until well mixed;
then pour on gradually, while stirring
constantly, the boiling water. Stir until
smooth, bring to the boiling point and let
boil five minutes. Cool, turn into a jar
and keep in ice box or cold place.

Chocolate Milk Shake. Put two table-
spoons chocolate sirup into tall glass and
fill glass with cold milk, Shake thorough-
lv and serve very cold with whipped
cream, or ice cream.

Mint Cup. This is an easily prepared
iced fruit drink which will prove popular.

© lemons 1 bunch mint
% cup sugar M% cup water
Ginger ale

Remove leaves from two-thirds of the
sprigs of mint and bruise with the fingers,
Cook sugar and water five minutes, add
mint leaves, lemon juice and green color
paste to make a delicate shade, and let
stand over night. When ready to serve,
strain, fill glass of ice half full of sirup,
and add ginger ale to fill the glass. Gar-
nish with tips from remaining sprigs of
mint. Other fruit juices may be used in
place of some of the lemon juice.

Popular Ice Creams

CE-CREAM Shortcake with Butter-

scotch Sauce. Place a slice of white
cake on the serving dish, cover with a
slice of ice cream, with another slice of
cake and pour Butterscotch Sauce over
all.

Butterscotch Sauce. In a saucepan put
one and one-fourth cups (one-half pound)

brown sugar, two-thirds cup (one-half
pound) corn sirup and four tablespoons
butter. Boil to 230°F., or a thick sirup,

and add three-fourths eup thin cream.
Serve on ice cream and sprinkle with
chopped nuts,

Ice-Cream Shortcake with Fudge Sauce.
Use chocolate ice cream between two
slices of cake and cover with fudge sauce.

Meringue Glacé. Two meringues with
centers removed, ice cream spread be-
tween, and a few crushed strawberries
over the ice cream.

Chocolate Peppermint Sundae. Choco-
late ice cream served with marshmallow
sauce flavored with oil of peppermint.

Fudge Marshmallow Sundae. Tee cream
covered with marshmallow sauce and then
with fudge sauce.

Salads

EFORE your tea room opens, have
enough lettuce washed to supply for
the day the number of patrons you expect
to serve. Put it in a large colander, over
it lay pieces of ice wrapped in cheese-
cloth and keep in refrigerator or in a cool
place, Have your dressings made and kept
very cold. Prepare and cut up the fruit,
nuts, celery, chicken, and all the other
ingredients you may need, and put in a
cool place, Make up each salad as it is
ordered. Many times it is well to line a
shallow bowl with lettuce and arrange the
ingredients of the salad in individual piles,
then cover with mayonnaise dressing. For
example:

Lobster Salad. Have one pile each of
pieces of lobster meat, tomatoes peeled
and cut in eighths, celery cut in one-inch
strips, shredded lettuce leaves.

Chicken Salad. One pile each, chicken
cut in dice, celery or cucumber cut in dice,
and hard-cooked egg chopped.

Vegetable Salad, One pile each, green
peas, cooked potato, cooked carrot, cooked
beets, cut in dice about the size of the
peas.

Fruit Salad, One pile each grapefruit
and orange sections cut in pieces, pine-
apple cut in dice, celery cut in small
pieces, nut meats cut in pieces.

Sandwiches

ILLINGS should he prepared before

the hours at which the tea room is
open, or the ingredients for fillings may
be made ready and kept in separate dishes
ready to be put together at a moment’s
notice.

Butter for sandwiches should always be
creamed, that it may be quickly and easily
spread. A small palette knife or spatuia
is desirable for spreading the filling.

Club Sandwich. On a_ slice of toast
place a leaf of lettuce, then lay a thick
slice of tomato on top and cover with
mayonnaise dressing. Place another slice
of toast above the tomato, and on it ar-
range sliced chicken covered with crisp
bacon, Place a third slice of toast over
all, and garnish with large olives, and let-
tuce cups holding mayonnaise dressing.

French Toast Sandwich, Cut-bread in
one-fourth-inch slices, spread with filling,
cover, dip in a mixture of one-half cup
milk, one egg slightly beaten and one-
fourth teaspoon salt. Brown first on one
side, then on the other on hot buttered
griddie.

HIot Ham Sandwich. Make a French
Toast sandwich with a filling of two table-
spoons chopped ham mixed with one tea-
spoon creamed butter and a few grains
each mustard and paprika.

Cinnamon Toast. Cut stale bread in
one-fourth-inch slices, remove crusts and
cut in three pieces crosswise. Toast on

one side, spread untoasted side generously
with a mixture of three tablespoons but-
ter, two tablespoons brown sugar, and one
teaspoon Cinnamon ; finish toasting,

Lobster Sandwiches. Remove meat
from one one-pound lobster, chop finely,
mix with 4 cup mayonnaise dressing.
Spread on crisp lettuce leaves and place
between thinly sliced bread cut in the
shape of triangles.

Layer Sandwiches or ribbon sandwiches

are made with three or more slices of
bread put together with filling. They
should be folded in damp cheesecloth,

pressed under a weight until serving time,
then cut in slices, and arranged on a
doily covered plate. The bread mav be ali
white, or alternate slices of white and
dark bread may be used. Nut bread, gra-
ham bread, and Boston brown bread are
all attractive. The middle slice of bread
should be spread on both sides with butter
or other filling, and the outside slices
should be buttered on one side only.

Ribbon Sandwiches with Cheese and
Olives, Cut two slices of white bread and
one slice of graham bread one-fourth inch
thick. Mash a cream cheese, mix with six
large olives finely chopped, and season
with salt and paprika, Put bread together
in alternate colors, spreading each slice
with creamed butter and with the cheese
mixture. Fold in cheesecloth and press
under weight ; when ready to serve, cut in
thin slices.

Ribbon Sandwiches with Egg. Cook
three egg yolks in boiling water until dry
and mealy. Drain. mash. and moisten
with melted butter or salad dressing. Use
as a filling in ribbon sandwiches, sprink-

ling each layer of egg mixture with
chopped green pepper.

Sweet French Sandwiches, Roll puff
paste one-eighth inch in thickness and

cut in strips three inches ong and one
inch wide. Bake, split. and spread one-
half with whipped cream sweetened and
flavored, and one-half with any good jelly,
Put together in pairs.

Fruit Sandwiches. Slice bread thinly
and cut in strawberry shape. Spread with
Mayonnaise dressing mixed with an equal
quantity of cream beaten very stiff and
seasoned with salt. Cover with thinly
sliced strawberries or pineapple, and with
another slice of bread.

Chocolate Sandwiches. Melt two ounces
sweet chocolate, add one tablespoon but-
ter. one-fourth cup chopped nuts, and a
few grains salt. Spread the mixture on
unsweetened crackers, border with chopped
nuts. place one-half a pecan in the center
of ane mixture and serve as an open sand-
wich.

Swedish Pretzels

Into one-half pound of flour work with
the finger tips one-fourth pound .buiter,
and when well mixed add one-half cup
heavy cream. Knead to make smooth, cut
off pieces, roll same as in making bread
sticks, then shape in form of pretzel. Dip
each one in sugar, put on baking sheet,
and bake in a moderate oven.

54

Frostings

UDGE Frosting: A good recipe is as
follows:
2 tablespoons butter % cup milk
1% cups sugar % teaspoon vanilla
Put butter in saucepan; when melted,
add sugar and milk, Stir, to be sure that
sugar does not adhere to saucepan, heat to
boiling point, boil without stirring to 288°

I’, Remove from fire, cool, add fiavor, and
beat until of the right consistency to

spread, If frosting becomes too hard be-
fore it is put on the cake jt may be stirred
over hot water until soft, and then poured
over the cake, spreading it evenly with
the back of the spoon.

Condensed Milk Fudge Frosting. One-
fourth cup water and one-fourth cup con-
densed milk may be used in any fudge
frosting instead of one-half cup fresh milk.

Chocolate Fudge Frosting. To Fudge
I'rosting add from one and one-half to
three squares chocolate as soon as the
boiling point is reached. The amount de-
pends on how dark a frosting is desirea.

Cream may be used in any Fudge Frost-
ing instead of milk,

Boiled Frosting with Bag Yolks. Use
three egg yolks beaten until very light,

instead of egg whites in making Boiled
Frosting, Flavor with orange extract or
any flavor desired. This may be colored
with pink color paste.

Boiled Frosting with Two Eggs. Use
two egg whites beaten stiff in making
Boiled Frosting instead of only one. It
takes somewhat longer for this frosting to
become of the right consistency to spread,
and is therefore sometimes more success-
fully made. It is most used as an orna-
mental frosting.

Boiled Coffee Frosting. Use one cup
white sugar and one-half cup brown ‘sugar
when making Boiled Frosting. and one-
half cup coffee infusion in place of water.

Coffee Cocoanut Frosting. To Boiled
Coffee Frosting add one-half cup desic-
cated cocoanut and a few grains salt, then
spread on cake.

Quality Frosting. Add two tablespoons
molasses to Boiled Frosting just before
putting on cake. Flavor. with one-half
teaspoon vanilla and one-fourth teaspoon
lemon extract. Add chopped nuts if de-
sired.

Boiled Chocolate Frosting. Add one
square melted unsweetened chocolate to
Boiled Frosting, then pour over cake,

Marshmallow Frosting I, To sirup for
3oiled Frosting add two heaping table-
spoons marshmallow cream before adding
to egg white.

Marshmallow Frosting IT. Add from
ten to twenty marshmallows cut in halves
to Boiled Frosting as soon as sirup is
added to egg whites. Beat until stiff
enough to hold its shape.

Boiled Manle Frosting. Use one pound
maple sugar or half manle sirup and half
white sugar in making Boiled Frosting.

Honey Frosting. Use one-half cup
honey instead of sugar and water.

Menus That Make a Hit

On the left inside cover of the menu card of the Coffee House (page 35)

is the regular printed menu. On the right a loose, typewritten sheet of
specials is attached each day with a clip.

Breakfast SPECIALS
VIVES TEES MRA se a nn ena rt ee 99 Vegetable Soup, Corn Sticks .  . 15
lal ORNNGS | oman aon sen OOo Ores 15 Sie : Lunch ‘
Ware H nts et. A ete ak oc kos ‘O5._~—s Fried chicken, sweet potatoes with
Hot ‘Buttered’ Rolls... 10 marshmallows, sliced tomatoes,
tees oes : hotarolls +. . =. +. 2-~- 200
Luncheon Virginia ham, potato salad, hot %
rolls Ra Pee gar ge omer ec)
Winitlona attr) Seabee (teeter en & Srcl5 i vo, Sis B21) 3raised beef, browned potatoes,
Whickenusnladensa sales so ee a0) lima beans, hot rolls... .  . .60
OTAGO AIAGS tlm vt Picea oe ee 35 Baked trout, baked potatoes, lima
ETO UROMS 6 Sone til oeeetc ee a ners 10 beans, corn sticks. . . . .« .60
Tongue, potato salad, hot rolls. D0
Sandwiches Any above vegetable . . . . 15
Chicken (Hot or Cold) ..30 Salads
HoOtyRoastebeeh » 2) 6 -2D Vanderbiltisalads 9. = 5. « -O0
Ie lehony a Pee Sa 5 Shrimp salad. ee ee co
Minced Ham... . .10 Avacodo pear salad’. =... « « BO
Tomato and Bacon . . .50 Tomato and lettuce salad. . . .50
Ripe Olive and Nut . . .30
@lubi ee west 4 8 50 Desserts
Olive and Bacon . . . .30 Banana cream pie with whipped
Chicken Salad Sandwich. .50 cream a als
Blueberry pie ls

Blueberry pie A la mode. . . .20

Coffee . . . .O5 Homemade apricot cream . . - -20
Hot Tea Bra 0) Preserved figs, cream cheese,
Teed Tea see 2lO saltines Pe eos: Weak ee

With the warning ** Please do not order broiled dishes or toasted sand-
wiches if you are ina hurry,’ The Skipper (page 45) offers the following
choices at his evenina meal:

The Skipper’s Supper Salads

Lobster 1.00

Glam pouillon;, whipped’ cream. . 30 .Wrniti. (. . . . scsicee. 4D

Womeate bisque . «85 «© - «= «od Tomato... ey ee eS

5 ; , Egg, Russian dressing Cases, 20

Roast leg of lamb, mint sauce . 1.00 latin e, French dressing . .  . .30

Baked meat loaf, tomato gravy . .85 Russian dressing. . . . - -t

Toasted cheese sandwich . .  . .65
: Desserts

Baked beans Wiese cea Visto ss SOW Risa : .

: ae: Vanilla or caramel ice cream . . .20

Half a cold lobster with with hot chocolate. sauce .  . .39

mayonnaise te eh | 424 be om OST Half an iced melon 25

Feecited (chGoe steake, lobster a Sliced bananas and cream 5, =2 1.00
ve La Chops, steaks, lobster ant Chocolate blane mange, whipped

chicken, see other sheet of menu. TOA, Win A ck * Soa ti BA Reet

: S : 20

French fried or baker potatoes  . .15 Layer cake. Mig aL Rea =

Fresh blueberries and (cream <7! .u 220

Bithered apie cme ter snl oe. el Ice cream, maple nut sauce .  . 40

55

7

St. Andrew’s Tea

ried
Sla

Room

to be ordered a la carte, offers five specie

No. 4—35c Lunch
Stuffed peppers
corn

Ww

No. 2—50c Lunch
: Broiled steak
French fried potatoes

(page 16), besides

present

NI

lh

@ 010 337 111 94%

No. 5—25c Lunch

Turnip greens

lunches as follows:

Creamed potatoes

Hot or Muffins
No. 1—75c Lunch

Breaded veal cutlets
Sliced tomatoes
String beans
Escalloped egg plant
Hfot biscuits or muffins
10e Dessert, Drink

Biseuits

ego

Hot biscuits or muffins

4eets

No. 3—45c Lunch

Baked ham
Potato salad

The Chimney Corner (page 8) uses a permanent cover, in which a new
typewritten menu of three pages is inserted each day.

Page 1
LUNCHEON

Ghicken
Cream of

Hot Dishes

Peas: ae ere

Crab

Steak with hashed
brown potatoes.....

Broiled lamb chops
With! -WCaSwgeece A...

Minced chicken on
OAS Soyeweratbirene.eatians «

Deviled eggs and let-
tuce

Cold Dishes

Tomato stuffed with
chicken salad
Crabflake salad

Vegetables

Fresh asparagus on
toast
POSS aietatens Hon ee
Corn on the-cob......
French fried potatoes..

Desserts
Cherry pie
a la mode

w hipped cream......

Fruit jelly with whipped |

Cream * 21.73.58, ee
Strawberry shortcake. .
Strawberry
Peach shorteake.......
Peach sundae
Chocolate

ice cream. .

cakes wit) tartar
sauce Ae.

sundae... .¢

65

io

rt)

20
20

ca ee
Chicken

Page 2
DINNER $1.25

or cream of pea

soup

Roast lamb
Baked ham
Steak
Crab cakes with tartar
sauce

Creamed potatoes
Corn on cob

String beans

Peach and walnut salad

Coffee jelly with whipped
cream

Caramel] souffle with
whipped cream

Vanilla or

ice cream

Strawberry cake

Strawberry sundae

chocolate

Demitasse

Page 3

LUNCHEON
Salads
ASDALALUS).. . ose cee SO
Momatons..s+.,.)< 2 see BOO
The GtICes giao eee oO
(Russian dressing)
Chicken (22.1222 ae eee 7D
Waldorf 2....1/.2 3.
Pineapple and cheese. .50
tuitedetd ate wes eee
Sandwiches
Chal KAS, 6. ea
Olivet oon 6 i Bee ae 1
Lettuce <6 i Saeee ee a5)
Date and: nut: 22se. 2.220
Cheese and nut....... 20
Cheese and guava..... 20
Chicken Salad:...<.. 22 cay
Sliced Ghent BPs Soi;
SACOM! "ir s.chice es So eee 20
Ices

Vanilla or chocolate
ice CREAM 5 os. 5 a ED
Vanilla with chocolate
Shue e..5 Stree os ee 30
Vanilla with maple
sirup and nuts...... 3

Chocolate parfait......35

Sponge cake A Ja mode.

Cakes and Pastry

Chocolate cup cake... .10
Sponge) cake. ss) 5s< 5 6% 10
Kossuthséake.:.4.:'. 82% 30



Hollinger Corp.

pH 8.5

